received date = 12/18/1997
name = Wendell, Robert
company = Human Factors International - Private software UI design co.
state = IA
zip = 52556
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000250.txt
comment = I consider it a fundamental constitutional right for consumers to easily and conveniently inform themselves whether or not a product or organism contains any components that include genetically engineered organisms. 

I also consider it a fundamental constitutional right that producers be free to inform their markets whether or not a product or organism contains any components that include genetically engineered organisms. Any law against such information on labels or any other means of communication to the market is, I believe, totally unconstitutional. 

I believe labeling a food or product "organic" is generally understood to mean that all components of a product or food that are grown or cultivated as living organisms are free of manipulation by, or the inclusion of, synthetic chemicals or other humanly engineered modifications by synthetic means of a living organism's natural structure. I therefore believe it would gravely mislead and deceive the public to call or label "organic" any foods or products containing any genetically engineered component whatsoever. 

No matter how great their authority or how irrelevant they may personally or collectively feel it is to a wise decision on the part of consumers, no person or entity should be allowed to withold information that effectively robs the individual of his or her right to make decisions based on the information withheld. Any violation of this individual right is clearly in violation of both the letter and the spirit of the U.S Constitution and of our most fundamental rights of free speech, our right to the individual pursuit of happiness, and of those things we find conducive to it, such as personal health, etc. 

This kind of violation of individual rights has recently surfaced as characterizing many aspects of nuclear testing programs in the recent past. Could it not be that those arrogant, know-it-all attitudes of the past that have been so clearly demonstrated to be wrong are manifesting again by the interests that wish to promote the commercialization of genetic engineering technology even at the expense of the individual's right to the information he or she desires?
