received date = 01/01/1998
name = Stewart, Thomas
company = 
state = NM
zip = 87110
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = National List
section = 205.22
file = w0000679.txt
comment = The proposed standards for organic agriculture, though a commendable first attempt, are unacceptable because of some serious omissions and a lack of specificity in key areas. Particularly worrisome is the failure to address food irradiation, the use of genetically engineered varieties, and the application of so-called biosolids to croplands. Whether or not some government officials have proclaimed these to be safe, they cannot be construed in any way to be consistent with the mainstream idea of "organic" as more natural than standard food production. USDA considers all approved, synthetic pesticides and fertilizers to be "safe" when used as directed, correct? But they are not organic and are rightly excluded by the proposed standards. In contrast, allowing the use of the three unnatural technologies mentioned above under the label "organic" would destroy any special value in that label.

I also find part 205.22 (d), which is an acceptance of any agent produced by genetically engineered bacteria, dangerous in its generality. I am not only a consumer but a biotechnologist myself. Though I work on applications for human health care, not agriculture, I understand the very broad potential of bacterial engineering and foresee the ability to produce agents we now consider synthetic, and novel agents equally or even more unacceptable for organic use. Simply replacing a chemical plant with a fermentation plant cannot magically make these toxins "natural". Therefore, any general acceptance of agents produced in bacteria or other engineered organisms must be limited to molecular entities already present in the biological world. If something new is proven to be of significant value and harmlessness, the petitioning process would still be available for its consideration.

 Thank you for providing this opportunity for all who are interested in commenting.
