received date = 12/31/1997
name = Corazza, Paul
company = TelegroupInc..
state = IA
zip = 52556
country = United States
category = Public Interest Group
topic = General
file = w0000654.txt
comment = We feel strongly that all genetically engineered organisms should be specifically excluded from all "organic foods" categories (they should
not be included even among the so-called "synthetic" organic foods).

The reasons behind this sentiment have been presented over and over again, but to repeat: The long-term effect of these genetically manipulated foods is not known; in particular, the effect of these foods on human beings is completely unknown. There have already been severe allergic reactions to a number of g.e. products, and this happened very early in the era of distributing these kinds of foods. It is possible that genetic engineering of foods, as its proponents claim, is harmless--but that mere claim certainly does not provide a scientific basis for subjecting the national population to a nutritional experiment involving these untested technologies. Not a single long-term study has been done to monitor the effects of even ONE genetically engineered food! 

Some people don't care about the conditions under which the food they eat is grown or prepared. Those who make a point of selecting organically grown produce care very much. The standards that have to be met in order for crops to be considered organically grown are very stringent; this gives those who care the knowledge they have a right to have concerning the foods they choose to eat. It would completely violate this simple principle of "the right to know" to adulterate organically grown products with a
batch of products that have been created with completely untested technologies, technologies that so far have proven to be, in some cases, hazardous to health. Frankly, while it's a little difficult to understand why g.e. foods can be put in grocery stores without being labeled as such, it is completely beyond reason to think that g.e. foods should be positively labeled as "organically grown", undermining the consumer's only chance to avoid involvement in this biotechnology experiment.
