received date = 12/31/1997
name = Albert, Marulli
company = Agricultural Trade Services
state = MA
zip = 01013
country = United States
category = Small Business
topic = National List
section = 205.21
file = w0000663.txt
comment = In expressing my opinion on the reaction to the NOP I mean no ill will
towards the practioners nor the consumers engaged in the production and/or
consumption of these "organic" products.

Nonetheless, it appears to me that a significant number of consmers of 
"organic" products are very poorly informed concerning current practices
which are allowed under the certitfying organization rules such as those
of the California Certified Organic Farmers, Inc. (COOF). Further, it 
appears that those misconceptions concerning "organic" products are not
being addressed by those who have the responsibility to do so such as the
California Certified Organic Farmers, Inc.

It is my understanding that the "organic community" was very much in favor 
of the USDA standardizing the farming and processing practices that would 
be designated as "organic". It must be difficult for the USDA to find
itself vilified by the same element that asked the USDA to participate in 
this process.

The COOF should make it known to consumers that their rules, like some of 
those proposed by the USDA, contain a significant number of exceptions as
to what many consider to be "purely organic". These exceptions are 
necessary for both the establishment and maintenance of "organic farming". 

You will find in the COOF certifcations a heading; Exemption for Prohibited
Substances". These exemptions are allowed because there are times and
circumstances when it "is necessary to the production or handling of the 
agricultural product because of the unavailability of wholly natural 
substitute products". It is granted that the exemptions under COOF are 
less than those proposed by the USDA but, nonetheless, exemptions are 
granted.

One specifically prohibited item of the COOF is sewage sludge. Yet their 
rule includes this statement "Prohibited until COOF establishes a policy 
for acceptable sources and levels of contaimination". This is much the 
same question raised by the USDA. 

Another item is the use of pesticides. When all else fails COOF authorizes
the use of pesticides and fumigants in processing plants as long as they do
not come in contact with "organic" products. Nonetheless, pesticide use is
allowed on the premises when required. When pesticide from adjacent farms 
drift onto "organic" crops a "Maximum Allowable Contamination" that does 
not exceed 5% of the FDA tolerance level is authorized.

Even seeds may be planted that have been treated with a fungicide "when
untreated is not avaiable". 

Perhaps the item that may be most troubling to unaware consumers is the
use of raw manures. Although products are not authorized to be harvested 
until 60 days following application, the use of raw manure according to the 
COOF "Can be harmful to soil life and cause unhealthful levels of nitrates
in produce and salt build up in soils. Can also contain pesticides
residues depending on what the animal has been eating.--------Please be
especially careful when using on crops which can accumulate nitrates such
as leafy greens, radishes, and beets". 

The COOF does state that raw manure "must be used in conjunction with other
building practices". However, there is no caution concerning food borne 
pathogens such as E coli which may be prevelant in raw manure and may
survive until harvest time.

I believe those engaged in the certification of "organic farming" have an
obligation to inform their consumers and point out that "organic farming" 
does not occur under prestine conditions and reliance on some "modern 
practices" is absolutely essential in both the establishment and maintenace
of "organic farming". If they allow the alarming and misguided accusations
against "conventional farming" by their most avid supporters to go 
unanswered, then they must be prepared for the eventual backlash they will
recieve from that segment of the agricultural community that is being 
harmed.

It is my belief that the USDA should be not be involved in establishing 
food standards except for quality and safety. Neither issued is addressed 
in "organic farming". It is my recommendation that those who are engaged
in the production and consumption of "organics" should continue to do so
without the assistance of the federal government. If you ask the federal
government to set standards for the commercialization of this type of farm
production then you must be prepared for a certain amount of changes. 

Afterall, a large segment of our society, and our governmental agencies 
understand that all of our food cannot be grown under the limitations of
"organic farming". In order for the current and coming generations to 
survive, we must rely on advancements in technology to insure an adequate
and reliable food supply. Many of us believe that these advancements can
and, for the most part, are being carried in an environmentally sound and
healthful manner. Yet we would wholeheartly agree with others that there is 
significant room for improvement. While we make our choices on food items
we should try to keep the whole agricultural picture in focus. There is no
apparent reason that we can't make it work for all of us. 










 

