received date = 12/19/1997
name = Masters, Jonathan
company = Self
state = CA
zip = 90803
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = National List
file = w0000343.txt
comment = Opinion on product labeling, especially with reference to Genetic Engineering and Organic

Our system of economics depends on market mechanisms: consumers choosing of their own free will between different products. Knowledge on which to base their decisions is paramount and essential.

Labeling requirements are an absolutely key element in giving the consumer the information needed to make choices. It is clear that most companies would not normally or voluntarily label properly. So we, the people, have appointed an agency; government in general, and the USDA in particular, to make sure that we have the information we need. I want to say that I feel it would be a criminal act for the FDA not properly develop and enforce labeling regulations.

With regards to two particular issues at hand: what is to be called ORGANIC and what to do about GENETICALLY ENGINEERED products, I have the following comments. The USDA must required all GENETICALLY ENGINEERED products to be labeled as such. And that means that if a chicken is fed genetically engineered grain, the label must state that. Any argument that the grains are the same or whatever is totally paternalistic, condescending and specious. DNA has gone though up to billions of years of development and each aspect is extremely connected to all the others. It is arrogant and stupid of science to suggest that they know the effects or lack thereof, and of course there are already plenty of real death examples of that arrogance and stupidity in operation. Let’s not have another, potentially much more serious one.

But in any case, it is not for you or anyone else to decide for me whether I need to know this. I am telling you that I want to know, and it is your job to make sure I do: I require labeling for genetically engineered products.

As for the definition of ORGANIC. It seems to me that given the other components, connotations and legal definitions of what is normally considered ORGANIC, I using the label if any component of the product has genetically engineered substances is misleading, even given proper labeling as above. Yea, Organic, except it was genetically engineered to enhance shippability. Sounds good, NOT.

Jonathan Masters
mastersj@ziplink.net

