received date = 01/07/1998
name = Herron, David
company = 7Gen Networks
state = CA
zip = 95035
country = United States
category = Consumer, Press, Small Business, Other
topic = National List
section = 205.22, 205.28
file = w0000854.txt
comment = In general I like it that effort is being made at
the federal government level to define 'organic'.

In general I like what I read in these rules.

I do have quite a few concerns with this particular
set of rules that are being proposed. It seems as
if you aren't quite clear on what 'organic' means. In
fact I heard one of your people being interviewed on KQED
this morning and he specifically said the interest is in
learning what the people mean by 'organic'.

In general what I understand 'organic' to mean is;

food produced in ways that the ecosystem naturally produces.

That is, 'organically' derived systems are ones that arise
from the processes naturally inherent in the system. So a
kind of plant that develops does so through competition with
other plants in the ecosystem is one that developed organically.
One that developed through massive intervention by people did
not develop organically.

The concern is of unintended consequences. There have been many
instances where a system is developed and we did not fully
understand what was being developed. For example the system
of installing asbestos in buildings, that later turned out to
be a truly bad idea.

So someone can develop a strain of crop and do all the testing they
know how to do at that time and it looks fine and everybody
blesses it as correct and good and wonderful. After awhile
you get more experience with it and it turns out to be a bad idea.

I see this kind of thing while writing computer software all the time.
It is that there is a system in place and you understand the system
to a level of certainty at any one time. As the system gets larger,
and the natural ecosystem of the planet is quite a large and huge
and immensly complex system indeed, it becomes harder and harder to
have a grasp of understanding for the entire system. Therefore it
becomes harder and harder to understand all the consequences of
ones actions.

In such a case it is often best to let the system itself operate
through the knowledge that the system contains. That is, the flora
and fauna in the ecosystem each know their place in the system. They
each know what they do and how to act and so forth. It is us humans
that have forgotten how to live with the ecosystem who are damaging it.
The damage arises from unintended consequences since we have a poor
understanding of the whole system.

The idea of promoting 'organic agriculture' is not just so that I can
have food that is free of toxins. It is also so that the overall
environment will have less poisins put into it. I am concerned not
just with the quality of the food, but also the quality of the environment.
I recognize that we all derive our food and life through the 
quality of the environment, and that there are many activities that
humans do which put the environment at risk by putting more poisins
into the system. Not just poisinous agriculture, but burning oil
to make electricity, toxic emissions from factories, and the whole gamut
of byproducts of modern society. All of these things can be reduced
and eliminated by developing new technology (of the right kind) and
new solutions and new thinking that doesn't continue the thinking of
old that it is okay to dump any old poisin on the land or in
the rivers. 

So ... to get to my comments at this time;

Section 205.22.c.5; Antibiotics as pesticides.

This is totally wrong and completely against what 'organic' means.
By buying organic food what I am looking for is food that
is free of antibiotics and pesticides. These things are poisins,
that is why they are called 'antibiotic' (e.g. anti-life) because
they are geared to killing life. It is my understanding and belief
that buildup of toxins from agricultural practices of spreading
poisins on the fields is what is behind much of the disease.

Section 205.22.c.8; Newspaper as mulch.

While at the surface this seems innocuous I have some concerns.
For instance newspaper is not just paper, it is also ink on paper.
Are there substances in the ink which will be bad once
released on fields. Also are there any chemicals left in
the paper from the paper making process?

Section 205.22.d; Toxins from genetically engineered microorganisms

It is good there is language restricting the microorganisms themselves
from being released into the environment. I would be surprised if
there are NO accidental releases since there is no such thing as
a foolproof system.

That aside there is another concern. I don't remember the full wording
of the rule but my impression on reading it is that this is a grand
and great loophole through which any chemical can walk.

That is, I understand that the biotech companies are developing the
ability for any chemical to be developed by genetically engineered
microorganisms. Maybe my understanding is not correct as regards
the current state of the art, but they will get 'better' at this I'm
sure. 

If true that any chemical can be developed by genetically engineered
microorganisms ... well, that opens the door to traditional agribusiness
of dumping any old poisin or whatever on the land.

Section 205.28; Amending the list

This section says nothing about the merits under which something
is to be considered valid to be placed on the list.

What I mean is, suppose 20 years from now people have forgotten what
was meant by 'organic'. Or maybe it's not 20 years, but 100 years.
This rule should state the parameters of consideration so that
people are reminded what the rule covers.
