received date = 01/11/1998
name = Harvey, Arthur
company = OCIA
state = ME
zip = 04221
country = United States
category = Crop Producer
topic = General
file = w0000964.txt
comment = Memo #4 from Arthur Harvey, RFD, Canton, Maine, certified grower Subject: Confusing & Confused Sections 
205.16(a)(1)(ii) & 205.27 Apparently these two sections intend to say that any agricultural product, wehther organic or not, may be used as an ingredient, subject to certain restrictions. Such a fundamental point should be stated directly, rather than approached by circular indirection, which may confuse some people and waste the energies of all.

205.102 After reading this section several times, I am not entirely sure what it means. And the word "only" needs to be moved to some other grammatical point.

205.101 & 205.104 The intent of these sections is murky. Apparently USDA
wishes to discourage the use of percentages on labels, but loopholes seem to be available. A complete list of "panels" is not given, nor is there a clear way to distinguish one panel from another (which in any case may
overload the poor consumer with yet further complexities in labeling).
Because percentages are of keen interest to consumers, the effort to
minimize or prohibit them is puzzling.

205.2 Definitions - "Commercially available. The ability to obtain a 
production input in an appropriate form, quality and quantity to be feasibly and economically used..." This is too subjective. There should be clear guidelines for what constitutes feasibly and economically used.
This is crucial because a large number of standards in the proposed Rule are to be waived based on this circumstance. Is this to be decided by the grower without review?

The Preamble says: "The use of a practice or substance that is allowable only when necessary must be described in the organic plan, as set forth in section 205.205." However, that section fails to mention the subject.

Following the list of substances, the Preaqmble discussion states, among other things: "Synthetic substances used in insect or rodent traps are not active synthetic ingredients because they are not integrated into an organic production and handling system and do not interact chemically with any element of the agroecosystem."

The fact is, scents or attractants do react chemically with bugs and mice.
Creatures respond via a series of nerve impulses and molecular changes.
Even if bugs and mice were attracted by purely spiritual factors, which would validate the USDA position, this matter shouldnot be decided on such
fragmentary grounds. Organic agriculture tries to look at how a practice fits into a much larger whole. Also, when a class of synthetics has a history of misuse, whether careless or innocent, that is another reason to exclude it.
