received date = 12/31/1997
name = Hardiman, Wil
company = Missouri Organic Association
state = MO
zip = 65725
country = United States
category = Accrediting Agency, Consumer, Crop Producer, Environmentalist Advocacy Group, Industry/Trade Association, Livestock Producer
topic = General
file = w0000653.txt
comment = 
 Thank you for your efforts over the past seven years to establish national standards for organic farming. The fact that you took seven years instead of the three set forth in the Organic Food Production Act shows just how hard it was to reach a compromise between the people who have been involved in organic farming for many years and the big businesses who now wish to jump on the growing organic trend.
 To those of us who have attempted to establish consumer confidence in organically produced crops and livestock, and develop state standards, your Proposed Rule is a cruel joke. Allowing the use of sewage sludge, irradiation and GMO's are big, visible errors. More disturbing is the fact that once USDA standards are established, state standards will not be allowed to be stronger. I realize the purpose of national standards was to eliminate the variety of state standards and the problems associated with marketing this caused, but bulldozing holes in tough standards do not serve the "public good".
 Please implement rules more in line with the OFPA, the spirit and intent of your Proposed Rule seems to be to allow quick and dirty big business into the organic playing field. This was not your mandate under the Joint Senate/House Act. Instead big business should be challenged to change their practices and thinking to compete with the small to medium businesses who have established this market.
 The organic market was created by a lack of consumer confidence in current farm practices as allowed by USDA rules and regulations. Please do not destroy the organic market by impletmenting this Rule that will destroy consumer confidence in organic farming as allowed by USDA rules and regulations.
 Take this thing back to the drawing board.

