received date = 12/30/1997
name = Ordahl, Elizabeth
company = 
state = CO
zip = 80027
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000623.txt
comment = I read at www.wildoats.com that you plan to allow foods that have been 
irradiated or genetically engineered to be labelled as organic. I strongly
protest this labelling. 
 
In both cases, the subtle quality of prana(chi, life force) will be altered or destroyed. Just because our science is too limited to measure prana or to even acknowledge its presence, that doesn't mean that prana doesn't exist. Don't take away the last place where we can trust the food that we buy by allowing altered food to fall under the organic label. Although the scientists firmly believe in their opinion that irradiated food and genetically engineered food is ok, they don't know - no matter how many tests. Recall that scientists/government also said that it was ok for Army personnel to witness atomic explosions close up in the 50's - all those people eventually died of cancer at a rate higher than normal. Recall that scientists/pharmaceuticals approved thalidomide (sp?). Recall that scientists/pharmaceuticals approved high doses of estrogen.

Scientists can have a limited perspective - shortsighted, narrow and influenced by whoever is funding them - they have a vested interest in being right. The world is so much more complicated and interconnected than we can know - the scientists think they know, but they are caught up in ego/delusion. Trust in Nature. Don't alter what Nature is providing us. The Divine knows and is able to maintain the balance. Leave irradiated food and genetically engineered food in the same category with other food treated with hormones, chemicals, DDT, pesticides, fungicides, etc, etc. Allow us to have a REAL choice about what we put into our bodies.

Resist the urge to submit to whatever lobby is pressuring you to approve this measure. Take a broader perspective. Don't be bullied by agribusiness, pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals or whoever it is that has a monetary interest in selling this food as organic (as opposed to an interest in feeding people the best quality food available - can you see the difference in these 2 interests???). Don't let greed win.
