received date = 01/01/1998
name = Stewart, Thomas
company = 
state = NM
zip = 87110
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000678.txt
comment = The proposed standards for organic agriculture, though a commendable first attempt, are unacceptable because of some serious omissions and a lack of specificity in key areas. Particularly worrisome is the failure to address food irradiation, the use of genetically engineered varieties, and the application of so-called biosolids to croplands. Whether or not some government officials have proclaimed these to be safe, they cannot be construed in any way to be consistent with the mainstream idea of "organic" as more natural than standard food production. USDA considers all approved, synthetic pesticides and fertilizers to be "safe" when used as directed, correct? But they are not organic and are rightly excluded by the proposed standards. In contrast, allowing the use of the three unnatural technologies mentioned above under the label "organic" would destroy any special value in that label.

I also find part 205.22 (d), which is an acceptance of any agent produced by genetically engineered bacteria, dangerous in its generality. I am not only a consumer but a biotechnologist myself. Though I work on applications for human health care, not agriculture, I understand the very broad potential of bacterial engineering and foresee the ability to produce agents we now consider synthetic, and novel agents equally or even more unacceptable for organic use. Simply replacing a chemical plant with a fermentation plant cannot magically make these toxins "natural". Therefore, any general acceptance of agents produced in bacteria or other engineered organisms must be limited to molecular entities already present in the biological world. If something new is proven to be of significant value and harmlessness, the petitioning process would still be available for its consideration.

Provisions in section 205.401 appear to constrain state organic standards programs by arbitrary and subjective criteria. This runs contrary to the trend of reform in government regulation. In welfare reform, Congress has set forth ground rules, but states make their own improvements. In clean air and water, there are basic Federal requirements, yet states can set more stringent standards. The same goes for the minimum wage, pharmaceutical manufacturing, and other things that affect people's lives.

The proposed organic standards do the opposite by setting a low ceiling on regulation of organic agricultural and food labeling practices, limiting the states' rights to scrutinize activities within their borders, and preventing them from providing consumers with more information than USDA has deemed sufficient. From this standpoint, I seriously doubt their constitutionality. Part 205.401 (3) shows concern that stricter state standards will cause product discrimination in the marketplace. In this case, let the marketplace take care of itself, as long as we also let the democratic process take place at the state level.

A final comment about the public input system. Thank you for providing this opportunity for all who are interested. However, I don't see why there is a need to specify chemical manufacturers as a respondent group. Yes, they are important to other areas of agricultural regulation, but not particularly to organic standards. It gives the appearance that perhaps their comments will be considered with a special weight. If we are going to break out minority groups like this, it would make as much or more sense to specify ones like chemical sensitivity victims, agricultural field workers, and others with acute interests in alternatives to chemicals.


