received date = 01/01/1998
name = Pasekoff, Dorene
company = St Johns Organic Community Gardennn
state = PA
zip = 19460
country = United States
category = Crop Producer
topic = General
file = w0000670.txt
comment = 315 Gay Street
Phoenixville, PA 19460
January 1, 1998

Eileen Stommes, Deputy Adminstrator,
USDA--National Organic Standards
Docket # TMD-94-00-2
USDA, AMS, Room 4007-S, AgStop 0275, P.O. Box 96456 Washington, D.C. 20090-6456
Fax: 202-690-4632
email: see USDA web site http://www.ams.usda.gov/nop

Dear Eileen Stommes:

As a small-scale organic grower in Pennsylvania, I have some concerns about the current proposed national organic standards. These comments are based on my own practical experience as a working organic grower and therefore, should be reasonable to implement.

First of all, as an organic practioner, it bothers me that there are no explicit prohibitions against the following:
 
* Genetic Engineering - Using genetic engineering to produce foods. Any food produced through genetic engineering should be labeled as such so that consumers can choose whether or not to purchase the food. Regardless, a genetically engineered food is *not* organic!

* Factory Farming - Using factory farm style production methods on farm animals including the use of synthetics, inerts and antibiotics in confinement animal operations. An organic label on animal products should indicate that the animals were raised in humane conditions (preferably free-range), and fed organically-raised feed.

* Sewage Sludge - Spreading toxic sewage sludge and industrial wastes, so-called "biosolids," on farmlands and pastures where animals graze and food is grown. Yes, sewage has a high nitrogen content, but until the toxic chemicals (heavy metals, chlorine products, pesticides, solvents, etc.), can be removed from our sewage, it has no business being spread on farmland for food crops!

* Animal Cannibalism - Feeding back diseased and waste animal body parts, offal, and blood to farm animals, the practice that has led to Mad Cow Disease in Europe. Asking a herbivore's digestive tract to accept meat products (for which is was never designed for!) is simply asking for problems -- let's learn from Britian's mistakes! 
 
* Food Irradiation - Using radioactive nuclear wastes to "kill bacteria" and prolong the shelf life of food products. Once again, any food processed by irradiation should be labeled as such so that consumers can choose whether or not to purchase the food. Regardless, irradiated food is *not* organic!

No current agencies (wether government or private) which certify or publish stanards for organic food allow genetic engineering, irradiation, intensive confinement, rendered animal protein, or toxic sewage sludge within their definitions of organic food. Therefore, the USDA should not allow these practices either.
 
Realizing that is is difficult to make "one size fit all" in organic standards, I would also ask that the USDA also allow private and state organic certification bodies to maintain stricter organic standards than those the USDA requires. This will preserve a consumers' right to choose what *they* believe organic is.

To prevent conflicts of interest, the National Organic Standards Board, rather than the USDA, should have the final say as to which substances are allowed and which are prohibited substances for raising, processing and marketing organic food products.

Currently, organic production prohibits the use of synthetic substances in organic farming and handling. The USDA's current proposal which allows the use of toxins derived from genetically modified bacteria, Piperonyl butoxide, (a toxic synergist), amino acids used as growth promoters, antibiotics used as pesticides (like Mike McGrath of Rodale Press, I don't understand this one at all!), synthetic animal drugs and other animal health care substances, synthetic and genetically modified food additives and processing aids should all simply be delete from the Act. These are *not* organic practices!

The current USDA proposal also allows synthetic inert ingredients to be used on organic farms without review for toxicological concern that includes EPA List 2, Potentially Toxic Inerts and EPA List 3, Inerts of Unknown Toxicity. Delete this section from the proposal also -- these are *not* organic practices!

The current UDSA proposal also allows new criteria that would allow wide use of synthetic substances in organic foods. The new criteria and definitions proposed by USDA are "non-synthetic", "extraneous additives", "unintentional additives", "incidental additive", "synthetic amino acid additives", "inconsequential additives", "non-active residue", "non-agricultural ingredient", "non-organic agricultural ingredient or product", "active ingredient in any other input other than pesticide formulations." Once again, these are *not* organic practices -- delete this section also!

I hope you find these comments useful and incorporate them into the current proposal. The idea of having a national standard for "organic" is sound, but the proposal itself simply needs a bit of work!

Sincerely,

Dorene Pasekoff, Coordinator
St. John's Organic Community Garden
A mission of St. John's United Church of Christ, 315 Gay Street, Phoenixville, PA 19460

