received date = 01/06/1998
name = Alexander, Daniel
company = DMR Trecom
state = NJ
zip = 07030
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000780.txt
comment = 
As I read the messages written to the USDA, I see many people saying things like "Organic foods are safer", or "Organic farming is better for the environment", etc. What people need to understand is that the USDA is defining their rules for "organic" food production without these axioms (surprise!!). This is quite different than the mission of "organic" food consumers (consumer groups) who are/were proposing a healthier, safer, more ethical approach to living. The concept of "organic" foods was established in opposition to standards that are/were unhealthy, unsafe, bad for the environment, and unethical. It is not merely a word that tells of percentages (95%) of non-organic synthetic materials, but rather an ethical approach to living—kind of an extension of the old adage "You are what you eat." It must be difficult for the USDA to understand that the "organic" food consumer does not care about making any compromise with the food industry that may oppose any of these axioms (healthier, safer, environmentally sound, and ethical). They might consider us to be fanatical fundamentalists; however, in this case it is on a topic that is not so volatile. In reality, we are merely a group of consumers that know what we want and we will get what we want no matter how badly the USDA tries to create "organic" food regulations. Still, we are cheering on the USDA, hoping that they will get right; because, with proper legislation our numbers will grow and our nation will live much more "safely".

How many times have we heard people say things like, "It hasn’t been proven yet that IT causes cancer", or "They can’t prove that there are any negative side effects on children who’s parents used IT before they were born", or any number of other excuses to get us to accept products into our home. So often have such products been removed from the market after they were finally proved to be damaging to our family, friends, and loved ones. There may be some occasions where one can argue that the benefits of a product/process to the consumer outweigh the possible negative effects; however, it is unacceptable to argue that the benefits of a product/process to the producer outweigh the possible negative effects. As you read these messages you will notice that the large majority are arguing against even considering the desires of the main stream producer in the definition of this "organic" standard (what a concept). I don’t think that the current "organic" food producers will have a problem with this statement—they have always relied on the reasoning of their educated consumer base anyway (of which they are a member). If it cannot be shown to benefit the consumer and there is "belief" that something may be damaging (whether founded or not) then it should not be accepted as part of this new standard (shame on you for excepting such compromises in the past).

This means that things such as irradiation should not be accepted. This means that waste sludge should not be accepted. This means that synthetic/genetic engineering should not be accepted. This means that we should strive for 100% organic and not allow loop holes at 95%. It doesn’t matter to us consumers that "it hasn’t been conclusively shown that irradiation causes damage." Instead, it is clear to us that such intentions are profit related. More beneficial to the producer then the possible negative side effects imposed upon the consumer. Irradiation, for instance, increases shelf life of a product so that it can be stored longer or shipped farther (both are profit related). God forbid the alternative, which is to have many smaller local farms instead of the few large conglomerates. The use of irradiation is most beneficial to those producers that abuse their animals in ways that can only be described as monstrous. Oh what a tragedy it would be for us to be forced to properly care for our animals. Not to stick tubes down their throats and pump their stomachs full of food, not to pump them full of steroids so that they will appear more productive (milk or meat), not to pump them full of antibiotics because we have weakened them with steroids and raised them in cramped cages—sadly, I can go on forever with this train of thought. The point is that we don’t need this type of processing. Sure the large corporate farms may need to process food in this way, but as a society we have other options.

Again, please do not abuse those of us that wish to ascribe to a more perfect standard.

Regards,

Daniel J. Alexander (organic food consumer)
Software Engineer
DMR Trecom


