received date = 12/16/1997
name = matheisen, wendy
company = none
state = CA
zip = 95006
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000088.txt
comment = To all concerned'
My biggest complaint on this issue, as a California resident, is that I, personally, may no longer be able to discern whether my organic produce is truly what I have come to expect it to be. i.e. free of genetic engineering, hormones, pesticides & irradiation. 
I salute the USDA for it's efforts to bring organic food labeling throughout the united states under some sort of standard. However, the standards are not strict enough. California organics are going to have to compete, here in California, with out-of-state organics. Unless there is some extremely clear/BOLD difference in the front panel labeling between these two different products (i.e. 80% orgainic milk v.s. 100% organic milk or IRRADIATED v.s. NON-IRRADIATED produce), the lower prices offered by out-of state producers, for the supposedly same product, are going to grab consumer dollars. This labeling system seems to me to be misleading,if not false, advertising; and at the very least, unfair to both the industry and consumers. 
On the specific subject of irradiation, I am completely against the idea of allowing any foods to be labeled organic (in any percentage) that have been irradiated. I know that there are many conflicting studies about the effects of irradiated foods and there effect on human health. What is not in conflict is that iradiated foods use the radioactive refuse from nuclear power sources. The use of nuclear power plants is completely antithetical to the desire for a healthy planet and healthy human beings. This, may I remind you, is one of the main reasons why a person decides to buy organic goods-health. 
Yes, I want to see more farmers growing organic, but I want them to do it appropriately. To me this means conforming with California Organic standards. The California Organic Farmers Association did not just rise up overnight. It is itself an organic outgrowth of the desires of its community. By bypassing these standards and setting overriding federal standards of a lesser stringency, you would be underming the work of decades of dialog between farmers and community. There is enough money to be made from the sale of (California standards) organic produce to allow farmers the added income they might need to switch to organic production techniques. There is no need to "level the playing field" for non-organic farmers to compete by lowering the standards of what we call organic. If lobbying by non-organic farmers associations to "level the field" is indeed the reasoning behind lowering the federal standards below those of California, perhaps I might suggest a low-interest federal loan program for farmers wishing to make the switch?
