received date = 01/08/1998
name = Pratt, Deborah
company = Private Citizen
state = IA
zip = 52247
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = National List
section = 205.22, 205.25, 205.26
file = w0000882.txt
comment = I have been delighted with the availability of organically grown produce that I can trust. I am concerned that this new ruling allows the following to be included in organic production:

I do not want genetically engineered foods to be allowed to be labeled as organic. The fact that this is not being addressed is amazing to me since organic implies "natural" and genetically engineered foods are definitely not natural. I realize that Monsanto and other companies have a heavy lobbying effort, but please take your role as a representative seriously and please do not allow them to slide their genetically engineered products under the organic label. Safe or not, they are definitely not organic.

Secondly, I am concerned that antibiotics are allowed as pesticides. While I do not know the facts behind this, it seems that the lessening of effectiveness of antibiotics has come about as a result of their over use -- maybe this type of use does not have any effect on their effectiveness in fighting human diseases, but I still feel that they should not be used in this way. Personally, I do not want antibiotics on the foods that I eat.

Also, this proposed rule makes no prohibition against toxic sludge used as "fertilizer". It also does not prohibit animal feed containing diseased animal parts and waste. This was brought to my attention by the coop that I belong to, and I feel strongly that these should be prohibited. I can't even believe that they are being used!

Please, please do not allow the organic standards to destroy my faith in organic foods. Many people do not care if their food is organic, and I have no problem with that. However, I love the fact that I can trust that certain foods that I buy are truly "natural" and safe. And I am willing to pay for the extra effort it takes to produce food of this quality. I hope that as a representative of the people of the United States that you take your responsibility for our health and also for our wishes seriously enough to buck the lobbyists that would want to water down these rules.

Thanks so much for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Deborah Pratt


