received date = 12/16/1997
name = Nitkowski, John
company = 
state = CT
zip = 06410
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000115.txt
comment = 
Dear USDA officials,
 I am glad that there is to be an organic food standard. I hope that it will be for the benefit of the organic food consumer. There has been a consious effort on the part of U.S. citizens to become aware of what they put into their bodies. This is the very reason we are willing to pay more, and to accept not-so-good-looking produce. We are VERY much aware of the dangers associated with the ingestion of foreign, unnatural substances. We have a son with cerebral palsy (CP) and we have done much research into neuro- muscular disorders and have found that most of the pesticides used in commercial food production are definately harmful to the nervous system. We have sought foods that are as natural as possible and our whole family has benefitted very greatly. We grow as much of our own food as possible. We have taken our backyard, which was a very desolete piece of land, and transformed it into a very fertile, productive, life supporting mini-farm. Throughout the process (without the use of any synthetic fertilizers or pesticides), we learned of life's processes; Plants and animals live and flourish and die and return to the dust from which they were taken. Living things too small to be seen without very powerful microscopes and too numerous to count digest these living things and provide nutrients and life to those who come after them. Insects will often emerge as a sign that our agricultural practices are not well and will devistate our hard work. We correct the soil's deficency and our crops grow, laughing at the insect pests. It is a very great and fearful thing to truly contemplate the magnificence of these earthly things, as it is a great thing to contemplate the One who brought them into being. I can truly appreciate the hard work and perseverance of the organic food grower. At the beginning they were laughed at or mocked. But they persevered. They were fighting for a cause. They had to be victorious. They endured for a cause, for their families, for people they did not even know, and now their time has come.

 As a person, a citizen of the United States of America, I urge you to not bow to the pressures of injustice, and with true integrity to serve the conciencious peoples of this land, and of the world, to decide with true humility to protect those who cannot protect themselves. It may be then that we will continue to prosper. I would urge you to disallow the use of irradiation, genetically modified products, and the use of sludge in the organic labled food. These methods cut to the heart of the organic food grower 
and to the hearts of people who rely on the integrity of organic food to provide optimal health. Please do not strike us with a crushing blow. My children and yours will be depending on you to do what is right.

Respectfully submitted,

John G. Nitkowski
1628 Plank Rd
Cheshire CT 06410

