received date = 01/07/1998
name = Abbott, Jennifer
company = 
state = CA
zip = 94501
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000850.txt
comment = Irradiation is a band-aide--a way around the fact that this country cannot produce meat that isn't tainted with harmful bacteria. If the USDA has to rely on radiating our chickens to stop food poisoning, I hope European countries will completely bar any meat from being imported. 

The USDA's desire to sell organic veggies to other countries is one major reason the USDA should consider making the organic regulations as strict as possible (no irradiation, no genetic engineering, no sewage sludge, no antibiotics or hormones, including BGH, and no feeding animals to animals). For exports, we want to be in the absolute best position. Why should we ruin our chances of selling organic food overseas simply because our standards are too low to comply with other countries' standards? 

We should find out what the strictest standards are nationwide (I believe they are in CA) and the world and emulate them in the USDA regulations.

If the USDA chooses to take make any concessions to big business farms by allowing this watering down of organic regulations, then we as consumers must be given the option to develop a new stricter certification program. The whole point of the current organic regulations is to protect people who wish to be from the chemicals and bacteria of mainstream agriculture. Why water down organic regulations when there is no requirement to be organic? It is an option; it is a privilage. If you change the definition of organic, we will make a new term for the strict meaning.

I'm encouraged that the states will be given the ability to pass stricter regulations. But what about the states that won't pass laws? What will consumers do in those states?

I think the idea that independent certification programs will be eliminated is terrible. If consumers are not given what they want, they need to at least be given the option to develop what they want. Just as the organic farming movement was a grassroots, from-the-bottom-up, movement, a new movement would have to be started for all the people who are going to refuse to eat organic if organic means hormones and genetic engineering. Two organic standards will inevitably emerge, and we'll be back where we are today. In other words, the USDA's involvement will become worthless. So please certify organic food that really is organic.

