received date = 12/20/1997
name = DeYoung, Chris
company = None
state = CA
zip = 90031
country = United States
category = College/University, Congressional, Consumer, Cosmetics Manufacturer, Crop Producer, Economist, Environmentalist Advocacy Group, Exporter, Federal Government Agency, Foreign Government Representative, Foreign Organic Program Representative, Handler/Processor/Manufacturer, Importer, Industry/Trade Association, Laboratory Technician/Operator, Livestock Producer, Press, Public Interest Group, Retailer, Scientist/Veterinarian, Small Business, State Government Official, Wild Crop Harvester
topic = National List
section = 205.20, 205.21, 205.22, 205.23, 205.24, 205.25, 205.26, 205.27, 205.28
file = w0000377.txt
comment = The new proposed standards will hurt the consumer because they associate organic with natural and pure. Nobody in america wants irradiated or genetiicaly altered food The public wants to be informed when food is treated in this manner. THIS IS A FACT. All foods should have different labels in addition to organic, such as Sustainable, pesticide free, altered, free range. This is what the public needs. The trend until now has been for more information to the consumer not less.

The following definition of "organic" was drafted and passed by the NOSB at their April 1995 meeting in Orlando, Florida. It was developed by a joint NOSB/National Organic Program task force, and incorporates language from the Codex Draft Guidelines for organically produced foods. This definition is being distributed for your information. Organic agriculture is an ecological production management system that promotes and enhances biodiversity, biological cycles and soil biological activity. It is based on minimal use of off-farm inputs and on management practices that restore, maintain and enhance ecological harmony. "Organic" is a labeling term that denotes products produced under the authority of the Organic Foods Production Act. The principal guidelines for organic production are to use materials and practices that enhance the ecological balance of natural systems and that integrate the parts of the farming system into an ecological whole. Organic agriculture practices cannot ensure that products are completely free of residues; however, methods are used to minimize pollution from air, soil and water. Organic food handlers, processors and retailers adhere to standards that maintain the integrity of organic agricultural products. The primary goal of organic agriculture is to optimize the health and productivity of interdependent communities of soil life, plants, animals and people. 
This is the way GOD wanted it Please help us consumers of organic food. MAKE ORGANIC FOOD 100% ORGANIC AND NATURAL. Do not allow 1% of non Organic food to be labeled organic.
Thank You
Chris
