received date = 12/20/1997
name = Wehrung, Brendan
company = 
state = MI
zip = 48067
country = United States
category = Other
topic = General
file = w0000403.txt
comment = This is my second epistle on the proposd "organic" stanards, and while I
suppose you would like it under one of the specific categories, I don't 
have the technical expertise to decide which one. I hope you will give it
as close attention as you would a multi-miliion $$$$ agro-business or a
learned professor from an agricultural university.

Again, I am concerned with what is left OUT of the standard, in that I do
not believe that genetically-engineered products are specifically excluded.

"Organic" has different meanings to different people, but to me it means using what might be called traditional (pre-chemical) methods to produce foods that have not been altered or enhanced in some what that might be considered bad for a person's health. In other words, food that is a close to what the Maker intended as possible. Invariably, this food tastes better and is considered to be more nutritious. 

This does not mean that man has not had a hand in improving food quality. For millenia farmers have taken note of parts of their crops with improved qualities and cultivated those seeds with an eye toward better yield, insect resitance and better taste. Cross-breeding has produced new strains that are indeed better than the progenitors. 

But this is not all that different than what God put upon the earth, how His natural selection has worked since plants were on earth, and in no way the same as what is being turned out by laboraties today. Genetic engineering produces plants and animals that COULD NOT exist in nature. I am not saying that genetic engineering may not produce foods that are as good or better than the progenitor species (some of which are very different from each other), just that we should look with deep suspicion anything that nature could not produce itself. 

A friend has told me of some sort of plant, produced for cattle feed, that killed the cows. And genetically-engineered potatoes that produce their own pesticides--but did not entirely kill the pest they were supposed to drive away. Instead, they have reduced the lifespan of a widely-used and -regarded insect preadator, the ladybug, which ate the same bug to good effect and had no unwanted side effects. What sort of odd nutritional vectors are present in this insecticide-producing potato? Since the buzz word is "fast-track" these days, the buying public won't find out unless and until something goes catastrophically wrong.

"Organic" is considered by most to be refuge from these worries, and to permit largely-untested foods about which there are reasonable doubts (ie. those that are genetically engineered) to be sold as "organic" simply because they are raised without the use or pesticides or chemical fertilizers, is a gross injustice to the public, which has to be able to place TRUST in waht they are buying, lest the designation be cheapened to the point that it is meaningless.

US citizens, despite some lapses, have the best food inspection system in the world. I live near Detroit and watch a TV program called "Market Place" on the Canadian Broadcasting System. When they feature food topics in their customer watch section they invariably interview USDA officials, because you have done the in-depth research that their government apparently won't fund. In a few cases, Canadian standards are better.

For instance, I will always buy a Canadian-grown hothouse tomato over an American one because Canada does not permit waxing, which I consider a (slightly) dangerous treatment. I have to ask IS WAXING PERMITTED UNDER THE 'ORGANIC' STANDARD YOU ARE PROPOSING? I hope not. If it is, it SHOULD NOT BE PERMITTED. Waxing is, at its worst, the refuge of agrobusiness with no interest in freshness or adequate and speedy distribution (fresh-picked and ripe is when food is at its most nutritious) that gets the best quality produce into homes. The question of irradiation is the same, where large corporations whose goal is maximum profits instead of maximum quality (through strict hygenic practice and speedy distribution) want to substitute a highly-questionable form of food preservation, one that achieves the short-term goal of making the food last far beyond what is natural, but with unknown nutritional effects, which may introduce modified protiens (those modified when blasted by the high-level radiation) into the general food stream. 

I do not want to have to worry about these problems when I pay the higher costs of food labeled USDA Organic. I SHOULD NOT have to worry about them, because your standards should prohibit them. 

Please notify me that these comments have been recieved and read.

Brendan Wehrung
702 Irving Ave.
Royal Oak, MI 48067
