received date = 12/18/1997
name = Buckingham, Jonathan
company = 
state = 
zip = 
country = United Kingdom
category = Other
topic = National List
file = w0000219.txt
comment = No form of genetic engineering should in any way be associated with
organic food.
Some of the benefits to consumers of "organic" labelling are:

1. An absolute identification of food produced in harmony with nature,
 not in opposition to nature.

2. An absolute identification of food made from animal products
 produced with high minimum levels of animal welfare and compassion.

3. An absolute identification of food farmed and processed in such a
 way that no unnatural chemicals will be introduced into the food.

4. An absolute identification of food farmed and processed in such a
 way that no net damage is done to the soil or water.

5. An absolute identification of food farmed and processed in such a
 way that no net damage is done to existing wildlife.

Genetically modified crops, animals, bacteria or any other organisms
fail many of the above criteria. I will present the following points
to back up each of the above benefits.

1. Genetically modified food is a warping of nature, and is not in
 harmony with nature.
 In no way can tomatos crossed with fish, for example, be regarded
 as "natural".
 Conventional breeding processes are by comparison, "natural".

2. Genetic engineering will lead to ever more intensification and
 yields from agriculture. For example there is much research into
 beef cattle and pigs with higher meat content.
 These have produced pigs with chronic athritis, and hideously
 deformed outsized cattle.
 Compassion in World Farming, a well respected international NGO,
 oppose genetically engineered animals for on the grounds that the
 welfare of the animals is not compassionate.
 I agree.
 Therefore in no way should genetically engineered animals products
 be permitted in "organic" food.

3. Though not commonly referred to as "chemicals", genetically
 modified food is likely to introduce novel proteins into the human
 diet.
 For example Brazil nut genes introduced into soya caused unexpected
 allergic reactions.
 This is an unacceptable disbenefit to consumers of "organically"
 labelled food.
 Therefore genetically modified ingredients of any sort should be
 excluded from food labelled as "organic".

4. Genetic engneering is imprecise and side effects are unpredictable.
 In one case, a genetically engineered bacterium developed to aid in the
 production of ethanol, produced residues which rendered the land
 infertile. Corn crops planted on this soil grew three inches tall
 and died. (Ref: The Oregonian, August 8, 1994).
 Therefore genetically engineered crops cannot be universally
 regarded as "environment friendly", and may cause net damage to
 soil ecosystems.
 Therefore genetically modified organisms are unacceptable to
 "organic" agriculture. 

5. Again, genetic engneering is imprecise and side effects are
 unpredictable.
 There have been reports of vital insects to organic agriculture
 such as honey bees and ladybeetles being adversely affected by
 genetically modified crops.
 Therefore genetically modified organisms are unacceptable to
 "organic" agriculture. 

Finally, as an organic produce consumer in the UK, I will boycott US
organic products if they fail to exclude genetically modified
ingredients of any sort.
I will also actively campaign through various NGOs to ensure that
other organic consumers also boycott US produce if it contains GMOs or
derivatives thereof.

