received date = 01/07/1998
name = Cox, Patricia
company = none
state = CA
zip = 94110
country = United States
category = Attorney, Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000847.txt
comment = As a consumer of organic products, and a parent of young consumers, I am concerned that the Proposed Rule as written lowers current standards for certification of organic food and prohibits independent organizations from developing more stringent standards for additional certification. 

As to my first concern, I do not want the standards for certification lowered just to make obtaining the label easier for large-scale growers. Just looking at the definition of "Organic," the rule would permit the use of ingredients equaling up to 5% by weight (exclusive of salt and water) that are synthetic--not organic, so long as they are included on the National List of synthetic substances approved for use in the production and handling of organically produced products. That is ridiculous. The use of synthetics is inconsistent with the concept of organic food production. By definition, synthetic substances are not organic. If I am going to pay the higher price for organic food, I want food that is 100% organic in terms of its production and ingredients. Further, in the event that their are several definitions of organic and/or multiple methods of and standards for certification, I want the food I purchase to be labeled in a fashion that enables me to choose foods that do not use even small percentages of synthetic compounds and to avoid those which have been irradiated. 

If an agricultural producer wants to have its farm or produce (or a portion thereof) certified as organic, let them meet the more stringent requirements currently available--don't lower the standards just to make it easier for them to be certified. The concern that having multiple certification boards or standards might create confusion among consumers is legitimate, but your solution--to set a lower baseline and eliminate any other form of certification labeling--is flawed for at least a couple of reasons. First of all, there is a simple and practical solution. Only buy products from sellers you know and trust. Those of us who buy organic produce on a regular basis quickly identify sellers that we can trust, and we buy our food from them. Whenever I go into a store whose definition of organic is unclear, I realize that I take the risk of purchasing products which have been subject to less rigorous standards. Secondly, if you insist on having one standard, you lock into place a rigid standard that only reflects the concerns and values known today. The issue of food irradiation is a great example. The long-term effects of this process are unknown. I purchase and feed my family organic food because I do not want them to ingest carcinogens or mutagens, and because I do not wish the residue of such substances to be in the soil and groundwater for others to ingest. Until long-term studies which include looking at the effect of handling, storing and disposing of the radioactive materials needed to irradiate food, as well as the long term effects of eating irradiated food are known, I do not want to expose my family to them. 

The Proposed Rule calls for the elimination of private certification standards in addition to the federal standards and any state standards that may develop. I think that this is a mistake, and discourages local communities and small growers from improving the standards of the organic products they produce and consume. I do not think that this is appropriate. I do not object to the development by the federal government or any state government of a baseline standard for one level of certification, so long as independent and private organizations are not prohibited from developing and publishing tighter restrictions in order to obtain their independent certification. This independent certification process could then be used in a fashion similar to service marks used in other industries (e.g., Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval). In order to obtain the stricter label, the grower/producer would have to meet standards above and beyond those required by the USDA. Each grower or producer could then determine the level of certification standards that it wants to meet, and could price its produce accordingly. And, so long as labels communicate whose certification standards were met (e.g., USDA or a third party independent certification standard), each consumer could determine just how strict they wanted to be in their purchases. So long as the various standards are all published and accessible to the public, those of us who really want to know what we buy can read the standards. Those who just want to be sure that they get "somewhat organic" food can look to products that at least meet the baseline standard set by the USDA. 

Choice and information are key issues. The Proposed Rule should increase them, not limit them.


