received date = 12/30/1997
name = Anderson MD..., Lydell
company = Occupational Health Physician
state = CA
zip = 90815
country = United States
category = Consumer, Scientist/Veterinarian, Other
topic = General
file = w0000652.txt
comment = Dear Sirs:

This is a "Truth in Advertising" issue if there ever was one. The legislation as proposed is unnecessarily complex and endorses misleading food labels. It also has potential for long term negative public health effects.

For example, the proposed legislation allows the regular use of antibiotics in young livestock. The practice of giving antibiotics to all new animals on a farm will not bacteriologically "sterilize" them and make them "organic", as some would like to imply, but it WILL definitely select out resistant bacterial mutations which may then go on to infect the general public, with possibly disasterous results. We have already found a rise in antibiotic resistant organisms from the widespread use of antibiotics. This is an important public health hazard which in a truly free market economy could be decided by the market place, or in a less free market by government public-protective legislation. There is no public benefit to be gained from disguising the use of antiobiotics with the term "organic". 

As a lifelong vegetarian, I definitely do not wish to buy plant products with inserted animal genes, probably produced by a virus vector with uncertain long term human ramifications. If corporations wish to market such genetically engineered products, at least they should not label them "organic". There are potential long term consequences from genetic engineering, some irreversible.

Other issues of concern are the approved inclusion of "up to 5%" non-organic substances in products labeled "organic" and permission to use various insecticides such as piperonyl butoxide. These are obvious loopholes which I believe cater to special interests and will only confuse the general public for a very short time, especially in the information age.

The net effect of the proposed legislation is to water down the meaning of "organic" to the point where it is no longer useful, and will necessitate a new food product category to be developed by private industry, taking us back to where we started. 

Sincerely,

Lydell Anderson, M.D.


