received date = 12/19/1997
name = kETCHUM, Kathleen
company = 
state = MI
zip = 48073
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000291.txt
comment = Ms. Eileen S. Stommes
Deputy Administrator
Agricultural Marketing Service
USDA, Room 4007-S
Ag Stop 0275
Washington, D.C.



Dear Ms. Stommes,

 I read a recent article in the USA Today, December 16, 1996, regarding proposed labeling for "organic" foods. Your article called for people to voice their opinions on a variety of presumably controversial issues, such as irradiating fruits and vegetables, using sewage as fertilizer, using land that has been exposed to previous pesticides for growing, etc.

 I am probably and hopefully among many Americans that have concerns regarding pollution of the earth, and its consequence on people who live on it, not to mention the future generations who will live here, also.

 To me, the core issue for requiring fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products, etc. to be labeled 'organic', is to supply food that is not harmful to people or the earth. In this respect, I believe that irradiation, sewage, pesticides, hormones, routine use of antibiotics, and their like, have absolutely no place in organic labeling. I also believe that the key to developing good and sound policy regarding organic labeling is to have a good and sound principles on which to base it.

 When you examine these controversial growing methods, you find that people and the earth are not the central focus for the decision to use them. The central reason for using these methods is because they are always the most useful and expeditious for the supplier. For instance, irradiation is found to dramatically increase the shelf life of fruits and vegetables (good for suppliers). It has also been found to dramatically reduce nutrients within these foods (really bad for consumers). If we are truly commited to providing foods that are good for people and the earth, therein lies the key to developing good and sound policy for organic growing and labeling. 

 The criteria for developing policy must not be based on a "popularity contest", either. Ms. Stommes, you are a position of leadership. The populus can be canvassed for their opinions regarding organic labeling and growing. If some people say they think sewage and irradiation are okay, but not pesticides or growth hormones, then where is the clear policy or principle on which to base your decisions? You have the responsibility to listen to these opinions. However, you also have the responsiblity to do what is good and sound for the whole planet.

 Thank you for your time and consideration of my opinions. I would be very encouraged by a reply to this e-mail. Also, if there are updates to decisions being made regarding any rulings on organic labeling, I would appreciate those being forwarded, as well.

Sincerely,

Kathleen M. Ketchum

