received date = 12/22/1997
name = Raffaeli, Michael
company = None
state = CA
zip = 95389
country = United States
category = Consumer, Scientist/Veterinarian
topic = General
file = w0000444.txt
comment = There is currently a standard that has been set by the California Certified Organic Farms. However strict these standards might be, it seems that the fedral standards should strive to be honest and straight forward in deeming products as "organic." The reason Americans are interested in organic products is because they are concerned with their own personal health and the health of the environment that we rely on to survive. To accept truly sub-organic standards as organic would be deceitful, and would harm the mission of providing truly organic products. Is it right to sacrifice the consumer's health in order to allow businesses that cannot meet the highest standards a place in the market where they are having trouble competing? It seems that the importance of such strict regulations on organics lies in the fact that it calls for the producer to actually care for the product and to produce the best product that is safe for humans and the surrounding environment (watersheds, soil, plant life, and wildlife). It appears that some of the standards put forth by the fedral program will undermine the efforts of those producers of truly organic products by giving semi-organic products (even if it is 95% "organic") an edge in the marketplace. This in effect will take the focus off of what it means to be organic, and turn it into an economical issue, allowing producers who are not making the maximum effort to reap maximum benefits. 

It is important that a national standard be established, but it should be an aggressive standard that pushes producers to truly be organic. Those that buy organic do so for reasons; we are concerned with our health (the primary consumers of organic products), and we are interested in safe and sustainable practices for the land and its environment. To allow genetically engineered and irradiated products to be called organic would lower the standards of the products that the consumer expects to buy. This is not to say that the USDA should not encourage producers to make a safer product for the consumer, but that the term organic should be reserved for those products that are 100% organic, that lack pesticide residues, that support the surrounding environment and ecosystems, and that are created with caring in mind, not just a business' growth. I suggest that the USDA come up with other terminology for certifications that encourage safer production practices, but reserve the word organic for those producers that truly meet the highest standards that can be set. As a consumer, I am not willing to be deceived, nor am I willing to settle for less.
