received date = 01/07/1998
name = Bailey, Jeff
company = Prime Select Seafoods Inc.
state = AK
zip = 99574
country = United States
category = Handler/Processor/Manufacturer
topic = General
file = w0000812.txt
comment = Prime Select Seafoods is a small fishermen owned seafood company in Cordova, Alaska. We specialize in fresh fresh/frozen and smoked Copper River Wild Salmon. Over the past few years the value of our wild salmon has fallen dramatically due to the ever increasing importation of inexpensive farm raised salmon from Chile. All Alaskan wild salmon is a true and complete organic product produced by independent family owned fishing vessels. To my knowklage farmed salmon do not meet or comply with any organic guidelines. Some use less antibiotics and growth hormones than others but in comparison to Alaska Wild Salmon we add nothing but hard work harvesting our salmon. My experiance as an owner of a medium sized seafood company is that at the retail/consumer level farmed salmon is often sold as wild with no federal enforcement regulations to prohibit this practice. The fact is that the consumer never really knows what kind of salmon he or she is buying at the seafood counter. This practice allows the retailer to switch from wild to farmed or simply advertize as wild and sell farmed when the Alaskan wild salmon season is in prgress. With the present lack of any federal regulations the consumer is denied the right to choose between a 100% organic salmon and one that is clearly not. The end result to the fishermen and processors is that we have no protection to the labeling of our wild salmon. As someone who is trying to sell fishermen produced wild salmon into a market that is flooded with cheep imports I am forced to sell at farm salmon prices effectively devaluing our Alaskan Wild salmon. 
In closeing I would like to ask that you concider adding Wild Organic Salmon to your organic regulations and guidelines so U.S. fishermen, processors and most importantly consumers can qualify for the protection that these organic regulations will be offer. At present we can not force any of our retail markets to stop the wide spread practice of mis labeling salmon. Only a third party like the USDA can effectively do this. Please consider my request. 
Thank you for this opportunity to respond.
Jeff Bailey
President, Prime Select Seafoods Inc. 






