comment =  The whole question of whether something can be labeled "organic" or not seems to be skirting a much larger issue.  If I am to understand the statistics correctly, approximately 98 % of the food (vegetables, fruits, meat, etc.) currently sold is not organic. It seems to me that all the arguments about the definition of organic will only benefit 2 % of the consumers.  As for myself, I only buy organic eggs, because this is the only choice I am given in the supermarket. I do this mainly because I think that chickens are very cruelly treated in factory farms. However, many consumers may not care about this like I do. Some may not want their food irradiated, some may not mind antibiotics or hormones, etc. And then some people only buy *completely* organic foods expect perhaps the use of pasteurization.  The point is by separating food into only two categories,  "organic" and "non-organic", or perhaps three or four ("natural", etc.), you are restricting choice for the consumer.  A much better thing to do is would be to have a uniform labeling standard for *all food*, just like there is a uniform nutrition labeling standard for food today.  Either symbols or text could be used to describe how the food was grown or raised, and then consumers could choose how "organic" they want to go. For instance, meat might have the following labels on it:  IRR:	This food was irradiated, or irradiated products were fed to it HOR:	This food was grown with hormones, or hormone-grown products were fed to it SYN:	This food was grown with synthetic pesticides, or products grown with synthetic pesticides were fed to it BIO:	This food was genetically altered or engineered, or products that were genetically altered or engineered were fed to it ANT:	This food was treated with antibiotics, or products that were treated with antibiotics were fed to it. CON:	This animal lived in close concentration to other animals IND:	This animal lived indoors for over 50 % of its life  etc.  For vegetables and fruits, other codes could be added for pesticide use, hybrids, etc.  Quantifiers could be added to the symbols to describe how many years the farm had been organic, or how long the ground had been free of synthetic pesticides, etc.  I look forward to the day when I have a choice to eat organic beef and chicken. I am not a vegetarian, but I would love to purchase these products even if they would cost more. Currently the only organic items I can purchase are eggs and some vegetables. However, I think by having a black-and-white definition of organic you are doing two things:  1) You are denying non-organic consumers the rights to know how their food is being produced. Assuming that only consumers of organic products care about how their food is made is a very arrogant attitude, in my opinion.  2) You are restricting choice to consumers who may not want their food to be 100 % organic, but want something more organic than what is available in the stores right now.  -Eric van Bezooijen  ORG:	