comment =   I find it quite interesting to ponder over the situation in which the USDA has placed itself. It seems that there are only two positions that they can take when approaching the standardization of "organic" products, both of which rule them out as being the organization that should establish such standards (although, the obvious paradox is that they are, nevertheless, the agency with such responsibility).  The first position that the USDA can take is to recognize the obvious health advantages in consumption of organic foods. I would like to say that the "organic" foods industry was strictly self regulated, however, I’m sure that the "organic" food industry understands (and proudly agrees) that it is the educated consumer (consumer groups) that has had a leading role in their regulation. Either way, it is this coalition of "organic" food producers and "organic" food consumers which are proposing that this existing standard ("organic") is a far greater, a much more healthy, a far safer, standard for food production/distribution/consumption, far greater then the current/past USDA standards that are merely compromises between consumers health and mainstream food production profits. This is the fundamental principle of this organic food industry/consumer coalition.  However, if the USDA were to agree that "organic" was synonymous with healthier or safer, then they would have trouble arguing that their current/past history has been anything but contemptible. Imagine allowing a population to suffer unnecessarily because you’ve measured the safety of a food product with the profits of the industry that you have been called to regulate (profits that you have also been called to protect). This would be exactly what the USDA would be confessing if they were to say that "organic" was safer. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that the USDA can consider health issues in their definition of "organic" foods, particularly if they believe that there is no difference in the effects on health between "organic" food consumption and the consumption of food stuffs produced by mainstream companies--see the paradox?.  Therefore, the only approach that the USDA can take is to say that there is no difference between the products, which is to say that "organic" foods are the same as any other food produced within this country (which is contrary to the consumers beliefs and desires). If this is their position (which it is), then the only action that they should take is to merely document the standard that already exists (rather then to try to establish their own—they are not so qualified). If they want they can also enforce the standard that already exists; although I’m not sure that we gain much because the consumer (consumer groups) already does this extremely effectively and it doesn’t cost tax payers any money. This is really the only useful position for the USDA; however, examination of the history of the USDA would lead one to conclude that the profit motive of mainstream food stuff producers will have effects on any attempt to document the current definition of "organic" food production/distribution/consumption, indicating that the "organic" food consumer will ultimately lose by having the USDA manage the standardization of the "organic" food industry.  Still, being an optimist I will assume that it is possible for the USDA to consider us consumers and ignore the lure of the mainstream food stuff producers, i.e. I am assuming that the USDA will try to accurately document the current standards of "organic" food production/distribution/consumption (which isn’t that difficult, it just takes a bit of common sense). The only thing that will sway me from my optimism is to see elements of the proposed plan that are contrary to the current standard to which the USDA is suppose to be laboring to document. Things like....hmmmm....using human fecal matter to nourish the foods that we eat, genetically/synthetically constructing foods in a laboratory, or exposing foods to radiation, all of which are not health related additions, but rather profit related additions. The USDA would have to agree with this statement because they cannot consider health in distinguishing between "organic" foods and mainstream food stuffs standards. They can’t even use words like "healthier" or "safer" in their arguments without suffering the wrath of an abused population (maybe "wrath" is too strong a word considering the apathy that seems to have hold of our nation these days). Therefore, they can only say that it is their opinion that both methods are equally safe and that they believe that we should not impose additional costs upon the industry (and thus it is profit related). The problem is that the current standard (imposed by consumers and consumer groups) does not see it as equally safe (organic foods are much safer!!), and therefore the USDA must document that standard accurately or remain in contempt.  Looking at the messages posted within this homepage it is clear that there needs to be a number of changes to the proposed plan in order to document the current standard properly. Knowing the "organic" industry and it’s attentive consumer base, it is even more clear that this proposed plan (or rather this first draft documentation of the existing definition of "organic" food production/distribution/consumption) is far from complete.  Please do not abuse those of us that wish to ascribe to a more perfect standard.  Regards,  Daniel J. Alexander (organic food consumer) Software Engineer DMR Trecom  