comment =  I began eating organic food exclusively when I became a mother. At that point the considerable amount of additional money I had to pay to feed my family organic food became a small price to pay for the belief that we would be free from as many toxins as possible in this already very toxic environment.  I was outraged when the US government made it illegal to label products that don't use Bovine Growth Hormone (BGH). I'm often concerned when I can't find a natural grocery store, and I have to purchase mass-produced cheese for my son. How do I know if this cheese was made from milk produced from BGH cows? BGH is one of the most odious of things I can think of having in my food! Yet, I can't even have the choice to not buy it in a regular supermarket.  And why did this BGH fiasco happen? I point my finger at the dairy and meat organizations and the politicians who are swayed by their lobbying efforts. And then there are the chemical companies who can put out millions of dollars to ensure their position is maintained in government. It's no secret that the reason the USDA has allowed terrible food situations to occur is because the meat and dairy lobbies continually win in this lobbying battle. I am a vegetarian because I refuse to rely on this organization to certify my meat--it's a joke!  That's what makes irradiation so silly. It's a band-aide--a way around the fact that this country can not produce meat that isn't tainted with harmful bacteria. If the USDA has to rely on radiating our chickens to stop food poisoning, I hope European countries will completely bar any meat from being imported.   In fact, I think the USDA's desire to sell organic veggies to other countries is one major reason the USDA should consider making the organic regulations as strict as possible (no irradiation, no genetic engineering, no sewage sludge, no antibiotics or hormones, including BGH, and no feeding animals to animals). For exports, we want to be in the absolute best position. Why should we ruin our chances of selling organic food overseas simply because our standards are too low to comply with other countries' standards?   We should find out what the strictest standards are nationwide (I believe they are in CA) and the world and emulate them in the regulations.  If the USDA chooses to take make any concessions to big business farms by allowing this watering down of organic regulations, then we as consumers must be given the option to develop a new stricter certification program. I'm encouraged that the states will be given the ability to pass stricter regulations. But what about the states that won't pass laws? What will consumers do in those states?   I think the idea that independent certification programs will be eliminated is terrible. If consumers are not given what they want, they need to at least be given the option to develop what they want. Just as the organic farming movement was a grassroots, from-the-bottom-up, movement, a new movement would have to be started for all the people who are going to refuse to eat organic if organic means hormones and genetic engineering. Two organic standards will inevitably emerge, and we'll be back where we are today. In other words, the USDA's involvement will become worthless.  I believe everyone (or close to everyone) who eats organic wants the strictest possible standards. Why infuriate these consumers? 