comment =   Prior to being a dairy veterinarian, I was a herdsman on an organic/biodynamic dairy farm. So my comments are based on experience and also being sympathetic to the organic movement in general. As a herdsman, I saw alternative (homeopathic, mega-vitamin, colostrum-whey derivative) treatments work on many conditions (operative term being "many"). I saw them work so well that I went to vet school in order to learn the conventional approaches because, as anyone with livestock experience knows, nothing works all the time. I work in an intensive dairy area (Lancaster county, PA). There are many natural minded people. There are also many people who view the term "organic" differently. Thus, the need for a uniform set of rules.  RESPONSE TO SOME CONSUMERS WHO HAVE COMMENTED:   One local dairy processor that cartons organic milk says on the carton that no antibiotics or hormones have ever been used on the cows whose milk is in the package. What happens to the cows when my homeopathic, colostrum-whey derivatives, vitamins, minerals, acupuncture and other natural treatments have not worked. Are they destined to die because the organic producer witholds, say penicillin, just to maintain organic certification? No, actually in my experience, there is ruthless culling involved. Some people believe in their heart that natural treatment also means no treatment. People have quickly shipped off animals to slaughter. Is this humane? Most current organic groups emphasize humane treatment in their preamble. But what is "humane"? Being 100% natural without recourse? Treating a lifethreatening condition with an antibiotic? I think the answer is clear and I am glad to see that antibiotics are allowed on a PER CASE basis. Another condition, prolapsed uterus in a fresh cow, is a bugger to replace within the body and can prolapse again if uterine contractions are not quickly initiated (as well as IV calcium therapy). I know of no alternative treatment to the hormone oxytocin that is readily accessible or as effective (including homeopathic caulophyllum). I am glad to see that it is allowable under the proposed rule.  RESPONSE TO 205.14(c)  HOWEVER, I am not happy with section 205.14(c) that says to follow regular withold times when an animal drug is administered. There is then no difference between organic and non-organic useage of medicines. And this IS a critical point when extending a product as organic to a consumer. However, to arbitrarily extend withold times for organic labelling draws the ire of scientists that will say "prove the drug is in the animal to the extended withdrawal time". But with these rules we are dealing in the public/political realm so perhaps an arbitrary time could be set. As a veterinarian, I could see perhaps a 45-60 day milk withold as workable, with a serious organic producer still willing to treat the animal and not simply ship her off to slaughter quickly (to avoid "ever having used antibiotics or hormones in the animal"). The discarded milk could be fed to the calves until weaning.   Clearly, there is a need to balance health and humane treatment of animals with consumer demand. Perhaps some organic consumers would feel better if there was a clause that antibiotics/hormones were administered ONLY by a veteriarian in a life threatening emergency and that extended milk withold times (45-60 days) were observed. I could live with that, as could the cows that I am called to care for. How about the consumers?? Thanks for all this comment space.    