comment = In general the proposed rules on how the word "organic" can be used are a very good thing, although they fall short of what is required for "certified" organic rating (ie. California's) which is the only standard I would find acceptable.   Here, I would like to comment on what has been left OUT of the proposed standards:  ANTIBIOTICS AND HORMOMES IN MEAT.  NO, NO, NO and NO again. Europe as a whole is just about to ban all U.S.-raised meat because they don't know what goes into its feed, and I agree with them. I refuse to knowlingly drink milk from cows treated with bovine growth hormone, and any standard that allows wholesale use of antibiotics (which the human medical community is looking on with a growing sense of alarm) or growth hormones that may produce meat with unknown nutritional characteristics should be excluded from a standard that is supposed to guarantee the best and most "pure" (ie. closest to unadulterated) foods.  SLUDGE IN ANY FORM: I think the USDA has pretty stringent inspection rules about imporation of food from countries where human feces are uses as fertilizer. That's the base of what city sludge is, "enhanced" with all sorts of viruses that live in whatever survives in the modern sewer. I suppose that most of the danger could be removed by heat-treating the effluent, but even then the toxic algae blooms that are having fatal results for swimmers and fish off of the Carolinas prove that the stuff is not beneficial.  Add to that the industrial pollution that finds its way into sewers (much of it dumped illegally), and heavy metals in particular (which can be taken up by plants) and the result is a standard that NOBODY can trust.  IRRADIATION  Frankly, I see no reason to allow this technique. I have read that heavy-duty irradiation causes changes in animal fats and protiens, but have seen no studies either way. I know that just because a grower wants his product to last until doomsday without refridgeration is no reason to allow it for general food distribution, and much less of a reason in food that is to be sold as totally uncomtaminated.  If you say "pure" you should mean it, and the allowing the above is inapproproate to something that makes claims of approaching "certified organic" status.  Please write and tell me that these comments were recieved.  Brendan Wehrung 702 Irving Royal Oak, MI 48067  