comment = It seems to me that the purpose of NOP is to let consumers know what they are buying. Having a strictly defined definition of the term "Organic" when used on food labeling is, in my opinion, a very good idea.  So, given that I agree with the idea of a government created definition of the term (as it applies to food labeling), I have to say that I completely disagree with the new food items that are being allowed to be called organic with this proposal. Genetically engineered, irradiated food that was grown in sewer sludge has never been considered organic before, and I believe should not be now.  I believe that consumers fall into two categories in this instance. Those who care whether the food that they eat is organic (enough to go out of their way to find food that is considered organic), and those who don't. In this case, the consumers who are willing to go out of their way to find organic foods, are the ones most likely to care about whether their food has been irradiated or genetically engineered. I am one of those people (not to say that I only eat foods that are labeled organic, but I do try to get organic foods when possible, and feel much more comfortable about my food when it is labeled as organic).  I think that the issue here is that the point behind defining a standard is to increase consumer awareness (it also, incidentally, provides food producers with a marketing selling point, although that is not the real point behind it). With the new proposal there will be no (mandated) way to tell the difference between an organic food item that is completely natural and an organic food item that was genetically engineered, irradiated, and grown in sludge. We are leaving it up to the producer to "let us know" that they did one of these things to their food. And since, as I have already mentioned, the term "organic" becomes a marketing selling point, the chances of a company saying "Organic (but irradiated)" is very small.  There are changes that could make this proposal more appealing to me. For example, if a food that were irradiated (or genetically engineered, or grown in sludge) and wanted to call itself organic was also forced to have a warning stating that it were irradiated (etc) on the label (and the warning would have to have a standard format so that it was quite obvious, and not hidden), then I would probably feel much easier about these changes.  A final note: I stated that I believed the point of NOP, and defining a standard was to increase consumer awareness. I have seen some comments that the small farmer is hurt by even the current rule, because of the cost of certification. This has not bothered me in the past, because I have believed in the idea of defining a standard to increase awareness and legitimacy. If this proposed change is allowed to pass, I will no longer believe this--I will instead find that the true purpose behind this is to legitimize "big business" farming, by allowing it to be called "organic" even when consumers do not agree with the definition.  Thanks for the time and forum!  Dylan Vance