comment = The organic food industry is against using  biotechnology, irradiation, and sludge with  "organic" food, but big agribusiness supports  using biotechnology, irradiation, and sludge.  I support the organic food industry's position,  for the following reasons.   I oppose labeling meat organic if it has been  irradiated. Most organic consumers are  against nuclear power, which violates these  consumers beliefs and faith in the  truthfulness of the term "organic."   I oppose labeling produce or meat organic if  products have been bred using genetic  manipulation. If the USDA allows genetically  manipulated produce, etc. to be labeled  "organic" it destroys the meaning of the term  "organic," and thus destroys economic growth  in the organic industry. I've been buying  organic 20 years, and I know that organic  manufacturers would not use the term  "organic" to apply to genetically manipulated  produce, because then people like me wouldn't  buy these products.   I oppose labeling produce organic if it is  grown on soil treated with waste sludge as  fertilizer. These sludges often contain  poisonous heavy metals, such as cadmium,  and lead. Additionally waste sludge isn't  traditional organic fertilizer, like composted manure. And for consumers like me, that's important.   The organic food industry is against  biotechnology, irradiation, and sludge when  used with "organic" products, but big business  food industry lobbyist support these things.  The USDA should pay attention to the organic  food industry, not lobbyists for agribusiness  corporate profit. The organic food industry  knows best how to guarantee continued  growth in the organic food industry. If the  USA wants to guarantee growth of the organic  food industry (by continuing to appeal to  consumers like me) it should listen to the  organic food industry.   Incidentally, your computer letter format is  difficult to use, it doesn't allow text to be  easily edited. I had to write a separate  document and paste it into your form. If you  are truly interested in consumer reaction you  should solicit response via email, or get a  better interface.   Please respond to my comments via email.  Martin Stein <mmm@angel.net>  