comment = From a consumer point of view, I like the idea of a regulated Organic Farming labeling system. I feel that such a system would guarantee to consumers that the food that they eat has been produced according to specific environmental specification. However, I feel that your proposed rules fall short of guaranteeing consumers of this knowledge. Your proposal repeatedly mentions the idea of allowing the use of synthetic substances on a site-specific need. As a consumer, this would leave doubt in my mind as to the purity of all organically labeled food. If a specific site needs to resort to the use of synthetic substances, then they should lose the privledge of using the organic label. This site would still be able to sell their product on the open market next to any other non-organically grown product and thus not lose all investment that has been put into the product. The organic label should be reserved for only those who meet very stringent standards and succeed in harvesting a crop or raising animals that are guaranteed to be free of synthetic substances. The prize for achieving this goal is to reward the producers and handlers through the ability to market their product at a higher price than non-organically grown products. By allowing products that used synthetic substances, even on a limited site-specific basis, to mix in with those products that have remained truly organic would deminsh the market value of all organically labeled products.  In addition to pesticides and other substances that you have labeled as synthetic, you should also include irradiation, and genetically modified foods. Both processes would fall under extraneous processing (irradiation being extraneous post-processing and genetic engineering being extraneous pre-processing). Neither is required in order to provide healthy food to the public. In addition, many consumers who shop for organic foods have concerns about these processes and would prefer to avoid foods that have undergone either of these process. Food that includes a guarantee of having undergone neither of these processes would thus command a higher retail value.  Thank you for taking the time to consider these concerns and for providing an opportunity for the public to make their voice heard. 