comment = I am writing to comment on the proposed updating of federal organic standards. Over the past several years I have become more and more concerned over the quality of the foods available to me as a consumer, as well as the impact of modern agribusiness on the environment.  I currently have to go out of my way to purchase organic foods, and they are expensive, but at least I can be reasonably certain of the quality of the food I am buying and the farming practices that were used in raising it.  I understand that with the proposed new standards, foods can be certified organic even if the following practices have been used: · Genetic Engineering - Using genetic engineering to produce foods. · Factory Farming - Using inhumane, intensive confinement, factory-farm style production methods on farm animals. · Toxic Sludge - Spreading toxic sewage sludge, industrial wastes or ‘bio-solids’ on farmlands and pastures where animals graze and food is grown. · Animal Cannibalism - Feeding back diseased and waste animal body parts, offal, and blood to farm animals, the practice that has led to Mad Cow Disease. · Food Irradiation - Using radioactive nuclear wastes to kill bacteria and prolong the shelf life of food products.  I am STRONGLY opposed to allowing food raised using these practices to be certified organic. Please include language in the regulations that would specifically prohibit these unacceptable practices.   Also, please allow private and state certification bodies the freedom to enforce stricter standards than the USDA requires and maintain their own mark of certification if they choose. This kind of information allows me the freedom to choose what’s important to me as a consumer and as a citizen.  I applaud the USDA for trying to set a national organic standard. I am in favor of actions that will increase consumer demand for organic foods and expand the number of organic farms, but it must be done in a way that maintains the integrity and spirit of what ‘organic’ really is.  Thank you. 