comment = The organic food industry is against using  biotechnology, irradiation, and sludge with  "organic" food, but big agribusiness supports  using biotechnology, irradiation, and sludge.  I support the organic food industry's position,  for the following reasons.   I oppose labeling meat organic if it has been  irradiated. Most organic consumers are  against increased use of nuclear power,  which violates these consumers beliefs and  faith in the truthfulness of the term  "organic."   I oppose labeling produce or meat organic if  products have been bred using genetic  manipulation. If the FDA allows genetically  manipulated produce, etc. to be labeled  "organic" it destroys the meaning of the term  "organic," and thus destroys economic growth  in the organic industry. I've been buying  organic 20 years, and I know that organic  manufacturers would not use the term  "organic" to apply to genetically manipulated  produce, because then people like me wouldn't  buy these products.   I oppose labeling produce organic if it is  grown on soil treated with waste sludge as  fertilizer. These sludges often contain  poisonous heavy metals, such as cadmium,  and lead. But the most important reason is  that waste sludge isn't traditionally organic  fertilizer, as, say, composted manure is. And  for consumers like me, that's important.   The organic food industry is against  biotechnology, irradiation, and sludge when  used with "organic" products, but big business  food industry lobbyist support these things.  The FDA should pay attention to the organic  food industry, not to lobbyists for  agribusiness corporate profit. The organic  food industry knows best how to guarantee  continued growth in the organic food industry.  If the USA wants to guarantee growth of the  organic food industry (by continuing to  appeal to consumers like me) it should listen  to the organic food industry.   Incidentally, this computer letter format is  extremely awkward and difficult to use,  because it doesn't allow test to be easily  edited on screen. I've had to write a separate  document and paste in into your form. If you  are truly interested in consumer reaction  you should solicit response via email, or get a  better interface.   