comment = 1) Prohibit genetic engineering in every phase of the organic food chain--not only GE seeds, but GE (or GE-derived) fertilizers or other agricultural inputs, and foods produced from GE sources or using GE processing agents or their derivatives (e.g., rennets, enzymes such as alpha amylase, etc.).   2) Irradiation should be prohibited under the organic label. It fosters continued reliance on nuclear technologies in general, and simply doesn't fit into the traditional organic orientation. It has been likened to genetic engineering in its reputed ability to modify chemical structures in the food it treats, particularly creating novel proteins, whose bioactivity is completely unknown and unpredictable.   3) Use of municipal sewage sludge as organic fertilizer should be banned. Quite aside from the human waste issue, organic accreditation boards have decried sewage as contaminated with heavy metals such as cadmium and lead, which are readily absorbed by many crops.   4) All organic livestock should receive feed which was grown and processed without use of genetic engineering, irradiation, and municipal sewage sludge. (This is particularly important to dairy consumers.)  5) The definition of organic should be determined by concensus among those who have been growing, eating, selling, and promoting organic food over the long term--not by industrial ambitions or popular vote. At a minimum, organic implies *natural from start to finish*. Diluting the meaning of organic is a crime against nature and a crime against consumers who have demonstrated a burgeoning interest in organic products. Respondents should emphasize the issue of "what constitutes organic," rather than safety questions. The safety questions are irrespective of the organic issue, and we should secure the integrity of the organic label first, and *then* turn to the safety, etc., questions, if we wish--but for the entire conventional food chain. Otherwise, if we emphasize safety at this point, we invite the chemical (a.k.a. "biotech") industry to engage in a debate in which by definition they should have no role to begin with. If we stick with organic as a tradition and as a lifestyle choice, there's nothing for them to debate.