comment = I must express my great concern for the proposed standards for "organic" labeling. From the strictest viewpoint of raising organic crops, the farmer does not use any type of artificial and/or chemical fertilizers (and pesticides) on the crops, accomplishing these tasks with more natural and environmentally friendly methods. Among these techniques is the usage of manure and decaying plant waste for fertilization, as well as planting specific other plants to discourage pests. Of course, you as the USDA know this, but I want to prove a point: organic production is done because it is safer for people's health, safer for the earth, and is nature’s way (a.k.a. "natural").  I cannot understand why genetically engineered crops would be considered for organic labeling. First of all, the main idea behind organic farming is not using chemical fertilizers. How can we, then, allow the crops themselves to be altered so to create these chemicals themselves? In addition, the production of these chemicals by the plant can build up parasite resistance and can cause havoc with the ecosystem. Secondly, genetically engineered crops are of course different than the normal crops. For example, the Flavor Sav'r tomato contains genes from fish—this is not natural!  Irradiation is another issue that I do not understand, and I do not believe the industry does either. When we irradiate a material, the material is modified more than just killing harmful components. The point here is we do not know what else happens, although it has not been proven necessarily harmful it is still in its infancy and has not been proven safe. Irradiation might have some uses, but utilizing it to modify food and then labeling the food organic is unacceptable.  I also do not like the way that there are ways for the producers to sneak synthetic materials into the production as including in, but not limited to, sections (e) and (f) of 205.9. I do not agree that the producers should be able to use synthetics in any form, as it would not be organic--plain and simple. Also, in the questions and answers section it states: "The proposed rule would allow up to 5 percent...of a finished processed product...to be ingredients that are not organically produced, provided that the non-organic ingredients are included on the National List...The first category...includes such ingredients...which cannot be organically produced because they are not agricultural products. The second category--non-organic agricultural ingredients--allows the use of any agricultural ingredient when the organic form of the ingredient is not commercially available." I do agree with allowing the first category of ingredients on the National List to be allowed since the scope of regulation could not include these products. The second category should not be allowed in organic products. If a company wants to label their products organic they should be able to get the ingredients in an organic fashion. I see this as a loophole for corporations and again undermines the idea of being organic.  As the proposed regulation stands right now, I see it as a way for big corporations to profitably slip into the exploding organic trend, yet it destroys the basis of organics. If this goes into effect as it now stands, it very well may motivate consumers to pass up the traditional foodstuff for organic food on the premise that it is better. From what I see, the standards are insufficient and destroy the great organic ideal for corporate profit. 