comment =   The agricultural practices permitted under this rule are unacceptable and should be prohibited. Genetic engineering and sewage sludge usage are NOT "organic!" Irradiated food is ALSO NOT "organic." Millions of consumers believe that organic means untampered-with by growers. Those of us who want to eat and also feed to our children produce and value added products like soy foods and beverages do not want these standards as they are proposed. All you are trying to do is allow megacorporate farmers access to the market of the future, which will only serve to take organics beyond recognition for the sake of the almighty buck! Organic means grown in well-areated soil and recyling the waste from previously-used food via the compost pile for fertilizer. Chemically generated pesticides and herbicides are not needed because the plants develop internally at a natural rate, and pests find them undigestable when compost is used as fertilizer--it has something to do with the simple versus complex sugars that naturally-derived fertilizers like compost generate in the plant. And I am sure your agency knows about this more better than I can explain. Also , when chemicals are used, beneficial insect and animal populations are thwarted. I know, there is supposed to be a bee shortage in Maine, but my garden attracts bees and ladybugs because they aren't killed off by chemical poisons.  Also this rule will prohibit the right of free choice at a market for consumers. I want to be able to believe that I obtain the produce of growers who have the same philosophy as me. How would I believe this under the proposed rules, because small organic growers could easily be pushed out of the market by megacorporations which are using chemicals, irradiation, and sewage-sludge fertilizer, while posing as using organic standards. It's a matter of taste, as much as concern for leaching chemicals from fertilizers into the environment. Produce grown using the fertilizer I described tastes much better, and has the most nutrititive content.  I believe that these proposed rules are not good for the health of America's population. Please listen and adhere to the National Organic Standards Board, which recommended against the very practices allowed in the proposed rules.