comment = Dear Sirs:  Please include my comments along with the vast majority of those against several points of your issue regarding Organic labeling.  I believe every phase of genetic engineering , and I emphasize EVERY, should be prohibited in regards to organic labeling. The very term "organic" does not, and should not, ever include something that is man-made or genetically engineered. This also brings up the issue of irradiation, which again falls into the same category. Any treatment of food which modifies the chemical structure through man-made treatments, should never receive the distinction of being labeled organic.  Sewage sludge is another area of concern. Anyone with any common sense should realize the potential for contamination with this by product. Think of what goes down your toilet. Think of the people you come in contact with every day. Do you want to be eating a by product of what goes down their drain? In addition to the already proven cadmium and lead concerns, are there not biological considerations in todays world? Your children have to live with these decisions too--you know!  If you really want to change something, stick to the format of those that have been involved with organic food production and consumption for a long period of time. Even with the dairy products and livestock--they should not receive feed that is grown with any genetically engineered methods, irradiation, or sewage sludge. After all, organic implies "natural from start to finish"---and to the average person--this is not too difficult to understand. You would be wise not to try and change this definition.  No matter what kind of lobbying pressure you are being subjected to--just remember the faces of your children, grandchildren, or those you will have in the future. Remember these companies that are pushing for these interpretations CAN and WILL make a profit from areas that are acceptable to the demand of the ogrganic consumers. It is just a matter of taking a more natural approach-which is the Way things were intended in the beginning. Don't try to alter something you cannot. Use common sense, and rely on that little voice "within" you to reach the right decision.  Thank You for making the right decision!