comment =  						December 21, 1997  						412-10th Street 						Brooklyn, NY 11215    To USDA, Agricultural Marketing Service  re: Comment on National Organic Proposal, Organic Crop Production Requirements, Section 205.8 "Selection and Use of Seeds, Seedling and Planting Stock":  It is interesting that the United States Government takes a position that GEOs should be regulated based on risk and, then, presumably using this "risk" based approach, pronounces them "safe". The implication is that GEOs do not create a risk for the consumer or industry. This is a very questionable assertion and one that is widely disputed.   GEOs are unique in the history of the planet. Never before has the planet experienced the insertion of genetic material into a species which is totally incompatible with the species from which the genetic material was derived. All previous human attempts at genetic manipulation have been intra-species, that is between individuals of the same species, as in breeding pea plants with larger pods and those with smaller pods to increase pea production.  GEOs are created by inter-species manipulation of genetic material. Such manipulation never occurs in nature. When we place a flounder cold resistance gene in a tomato, or a human growth gene in a salmon, we are creating an individual that would never occur naturally. The creation of such an individual raises a number of clear risks:  	- what happens when this genetically engineered individual comes into contact with a population of naturally occurring indiviudals? Will the genetically-engineered individual's genetic material be passed on intact, or will it be passed on in some modified but as yet unknown manner? What will happen to the gene pool of the naturally occurring species? 	- what other substances were introduced into the GEO along with the target gene? I'm referring to the process used to create GEOs, in which an organism's natural resistance to foreign genetic material is frustrated by scientists using various mutagenic agents, many of them carcinogenic, to insert the desired gene. What is the effect of these agents on the host organism? What are their effect on those using or consuming the organism? Do the GEOs become more susceptible to genetic corruption, and do those consuming the GEOs also become more susceptible? 	- what other unintended effects do GEOs introduce into the environment? In the case of GEOs incorporating the naturally occurring pesticide BT into their genetic make-up, for example, the resulting wide spread use of this pesticide, even in situations where there is no pest present, threatens to degrade BT's effectiveness. Not only may pests develop a resistance to BT due to repeated exposure, other non-genetically engineered species may incorporate the BT resistance into their genetic structure, making the exposure even more wide-spread. The same problem occurs when genes producing resistance to synthetic pesticides such as glysophate are introduced into a plant's genetic structure.  At present, the US is greatly out-of-step with the rest of the world in its acceptance of GEOs as risk-free. Many countries, both among the developed nations and in the developing sector, have taken a position either opposed to GEOs or asking for further study. Much of this opposition is driven by consumer concern about GEO's in these countries. Evidence of this concern includes: 	- A referendum was held by Austria in 1996 on the issue of genetic engineering, which resulted in the second largest turn-out in Austrian history (the largest was for a referendum opposing the use of nuclear power plants) and a resounding rejection by the populace of genetic engineered foods. Austria, perhaps not coincidentally has the world's highest level of organic farming, with 30% of the market being organic. 	- The European Union, out of concern about the commingling of GEOs and naturally occurring produce, has mandated that all products that may contain GEOs be labeled as such. Products proven to be free of GEOs may also be labeled as GEO free. Such labeling is currently prohibited in the US by USDA policy. 	- Norway, Austria and Luxembourg currently have legislation banning the growing of GEOs in their countries.  	- Many European supermarkets tout that their products are free of GEOs in an attempt to take advantage of the pervasive anti-GEO sentiment. 	- Brazil sold out its entire 1997 GEO free soybean crop, due probably to the great world-wide demand for GEO free product. Because of the resulting soy shortage, Brazil was forced to buy soy from the US, which refuses to segregate GEO soy and thus Brazil's soy inventory is no longer GEO free.  The problem that an organic standard permitting GEOs would create for US farmers trying to penetrate foreign markets is obvious.  If part of the USDA's purpose in creating a national standard is to aid US farmers in their efforts to market organic products internationally, including GEOs in the US standard would be a great hindrance.   The fact that the NOSB recommended prohibiting GEOs is indicative of sentiment in the US as well. While the USDA may feel that GEOs are risk-free, the purchasers of organic food have shown in a number of surveys to have very much the opposite opinion. Including GEOs in a national organic standard would create a great deal of turmoil in the market and would probably result in states trying to introduce standards excluding them, thus undercutting at the outset the US standard.  For all of the reasons cited above, I would strongly recommend that the USDA follow the recommendation of the NOSB and prohibit the use of genetically engineered seeds and genetically engineered organisms in the National Organic Standard.  Sincerely,   Gregord D. Todd             