comment = Dear Secretary Glickman,  I am responding to the USDA’s efforts to promote a national “standard” to certify organic foods, and would like to add my individual, consumer voice to the debate.  I buy organic fruits and vegetables because I want to rid my diet of the artificial additives and pesticides that are plaguing the food supply and making it dangerous for people. I am a vegetarian (nearly vegan) who relies almost solely on what is grown from the ground.  I want to make it clear to the government that I am totally against any proposal to include irradiated and biochemically engineered food, not to mention the use of sewage sludge, under the label of Certified Organic. I am also against any proposal that would prohibit states from enacting tougher standards than the federal government. If standards like those get passed, you can kiss consumer confidence good-by.   In your remarks you said: “I have deliberately left open some of the more divisive questions -- not the least among them how we handle biotechnology and irradiation. It's a well known fact that the very best science has proven the products of biotechnology and the process of irradiation not only safe, but beneficial. I want to make clear that these rules are not about creating a category of agriculture that is safer than any other.”  Excuse me??? That simply is not true! Moreover, I find your statements in favor of irradiated and biochemically engineered foods to be completely inappropriate to this debate. It shows that the government already has a bias on this issue and is not really interested in what the people want and need, but rather the interests of big corporations whose chemicals and pesticides are responsible for much of the world’s misery and illness. Contrary to your statement of tabling so-called divisive issues, you made your feelings as a powerful government official quite clear.   If the USDA really served the public interest, rather than the cattle and dairy industries, and the chemical and biotechnology industries, it would call for a limit on the amount of meat people eat and the amount of pesticides sprayed on our crop lands. It would come out against the cruel, unsanitary slaughter of animals on factory farms, and prevent food manufacturing in the country from becoming a corrupt and dangerous enterprise.   With the population on a partly or wholly vegetarian diet, there would be plenty of food for hungry people both in this country and abroad. The wholesale promotion of meat means feeding grain to animals rather than to people so that a wealthy subset of the population (factory farmers and government officials) make money while others starve. It also means increasing pollution of our land, water, and air, and a dangerous allocation of resources for raising and slaughtering food animals.   Now that the government has turned its attention to one of the few havens that we have left--organic foods-- I shudder to think what might be termed as “organic” if the large corporations and the government have their way.  Sincerely,  Jackie Dove  