comment = I live in California and have for years payed extra to guarantee the food I eat is organic. It is better for me and it is better for the Earth. While I am happy the USDA is going to implement National Organic standards, I am VERY concerned that the organic label may cease to mean what I have become used to here in California.  I have three major concerns.  First, please do NOT allow the following to considered organic: - The use of sewage sludge - The use of genetic engineering (for example, the genetic engineering of  the BT bacteria into potatoes has already created BT resistant bugs.  BT is one of the most potent organic pesticides around) - The use of food irradiation - The use of antibiotics or hormones - The practice of feeding livestock rendered meat from other dead animals  (I am vegetarian but I am concerned for those that still eat meat)  Second, make sure that labeling is clear to the consumer. For example, the FlavrSavr tomatoe is a nice euphemism for a genetically altered product. Make sure that any product that is produced using the methods above are NOT labeled organic and also that they are marked when they have been produced using these methods. I ask you, would you rather feed your child an apple that is labeled "organically grown", or one that is labeled "grown using sewage sludge fertilizer, sprayed with Roundup and Malathion, contains genetic material from another organism, and has been irradiated." As a consumer, it is my right to know how my food is produced, not the right of a greedy corporation to maximize profits by producing as much as possible as unsafely as possible to both me and the environment. A case in point is the use of rBGH produced by Monsanto to cause dairy cows to give more milk. Due to the use of this product, cows must be given antibiotics due to increased sickness. The rBGH and antibiotics are present in the milk from these cows. Monsanto has fought the labeling of diary products made using rBGH (Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream were fought by Monsanto when they wanted to label their ice cream as antibiotic and rBGH free). Why?? The public has the right to decide whether or not they want to purchase organic milk or hormone and antibiotic laden milk. Please, please, please make sure that I continue to have the information I need to purchase food that is safe for both me and the environment.  Thank you very much for your attention. Please let me know if anyone  reads these things. My email is monty@robotics.usc.edu. I can also be called at 213-740-7288 if you have any other questions. 