comment = Dear Committee Members,  I'd like to first thank you for the efforts you have made to establish national standards for organic farming and product handling. Outpost Natural Foods Cooperative has been in business for 27 years and has helped pioneer similar efforts locally, State-wide, and on a national level. The final program and rules that you will implement have a huge impact on our members and customers and should minimally support the work we have already accomplished.  It is important to our organization that you implement rules and regulations that build consumer confidence in organic farming methods, not cause question or concern. Allowing the use of irradiation, sewage sludge, genetic engineering, or in-humane methods of animal husbandry are not acceptable practices under ANY current state or local standards, and should not be included in the National Standards. Furthermore, we believe that producers, manufacturer's and retailers that uphold and promote standards that are more strict than the USDA Standards, should not only be allowed - but should be given special recognition or consideration. This also means that private and state organic certification bodies should be able to maintain stricter organic standards than thos the USDA will require.  The natural foods industry has been working the the USDA on these efforts since 1990. The rules you have now posted threaten the credibility and future of the organic and natural foods industry. They not only degrade standards currently in place, but open the door for large agribusiness companies and processors to enter the market and preempt natural food consumers, independent retailers, and farmers involvement in future rules regarding organic food. Please listen to the original recommendations from the National Organics Standards Board (NSOB) and ban genetically engineered foods, irraditation, farming with sewage sludge, and intensive confinement factory farm-type animal husbandry practices.  Sincerely,  Pam Mehnert General Manager