comment = As a long-time organic gardener, consumer of organic produce, and strong supporter of organing gardening and farming, I am delighted that we will soon have a national organic labeling standard.  However, I do have three specific objections to the proposed new regulations.  1) Irradiated foods should not be labeled organic. I do not expect, nor do I want, organic foods that I buy to be treated by irradiation.  2) Genetic engineering should not be allowed for foods labeled organic. An organic label is my assurance that the producer is a responsible steward of our natural environment, and is concerned with sustainability. Genetic engineering is not compatible with those goals. I also do not believe that the gains are worth the potential, and unknown, health risk, and I very strongly object to being sold food that has been manipulated in this way, whether or not it carries an organic label.   3) Sewage sludge should not be allowed in the production of food labeled organic. There are too many toxic chemicals and heavy metals being disposed of in our sewage systems, and the regulations for the production of sewage sludge are not strong enough to assure that these toxins and metals will not contaminate the land farmed organically, or the food produced on that land. If a strong certification process for the production of sewage sludge is implemented sometime in the future, then there may be a place for this potentially valuable resource in future organic regulations.   In general, the proposed regulations represent an important step forward for consumers and producers of organic food. However, consumers need to be protected from practices that are not part of traditional organic farming practices, and that we do not reasonably expect to be used on organic food that we buy. The practices outlined above are potentially harmful to consumers, and therefore should be excluded under the new regulations. The potential profitability of these practices to companies who are not organic farmers or consumers of organic foods is not an acceptable reason to allow these practices.  Sincerely,  Laura Chalifoux 87 East Bare Hill Road Harvard, MA 01451 (978) 456-3142 sparky@badgerspleen.com 