comment = My wife and I and many friends feel good that USDA is coming out with standards for organic foods. This is an encouraging development. However, we feel very strongly about several points:    1. There should be absolutely no genetically engineered organisms allowed in any way, shape or form in a product that is labeled "organic". We feel that such organisms violate the whole idea of organic foods--which, to us, means foods that are produced naturally with a minimum of technological intervention. There should also be a prohibition against using genetically engineered pesticides, herbicides and other crop amendments.   Right now there are numerous genetically engineered foods on the market that are not even labeled as such. We want to be able to purchase foods that are certified organic and do not contain genetically engineered organisms. Since there has been no long term testing of these "high-tech" foods, no one knows how they will affect peoples' health. In fact, some of these foods have produced severe illnesses and fatalities. We do not want to be the guinea pigs of the biotech industry. We feel that it is a bad idea that there are now many non-organic genetically engineered foods that people do not even know about. These foods should be labeled as such so the consumer knows what he is getting and can make an informed decision. Let us not be the captives of big biotech and food interests. Label these genetically engineered foods!   2. The number of synthetic substances allowed in organic food production should be held to an absolute minimum, i.e., the fewer, the better. Certainly there should be no synthetic substances in the products themselves. The whole point of organic foods is naturalness. Why should we allow a whole bunch of synthetic chemicals and compounds to be a part of organic food production? We always seem to learn very late that such synthetic substances are harmful especially in the long term.  Thank you for accepting these comments. Please take them to heart since the health of the US population will definitely be affected by your decisions on organic food standards. Just think. Organic production may very well become the standard way of producing food in a few years since it definitely gives healthier and tastier results when done properly.  With our best wishes for creating a healthy, intelligent set of organic standards,  Lee F. Ryan Joann P. Ryan  