comment = Organic produce is a market which was created by people who no longer wanted to expose themselves and others to toxic chemicals, commonly introduced into the food chain by spraying of pesticides, herbicides and synthetic fertilizers on crops.  The proposed rule rightfully excludes these practices. However it leaves open two other sources of food contamination: 1) food irradiation. Despite what some regulatory agencies like the FDA are saying, this is not safe. Food irradiation can create cancer promoting substances like benzene, and other so far unidentified and unstudied substances. Let's exclude food irradiation as a source of contamination as well!! 2) the use of sludge as fertilizer. The same principal exists here as it does with the spraying of pesticides and herbicides. Whatever we use on our crops will be added to the food chain. The high incidence of contamination with industrial waste like heavy metals etc. of 'sludge' should not be permitted on organic food. No known contaminants should be allowed on organic crops.  A third point of concern is the bio-engineering of crop species. Let me illustrate this point with an example: I am a computer programmer and often have to make changes to a relatively complex piece of software. When I make changes it is not unusual to happen that I make a change which fixes a problem in one area but creates another, sometimes bigger problem in another area of the program.  I am willing to bet that nature and genetic engineering is a whole lot more complex than the software system I work on. Common sense tells me that there are a lot of ways in which genetic engineering can cause unforeseen problems, some of which may not become apparent until much later. So I would advocate to exclude this practice from organic food as well.  One more observation: In my opinion the consumer stands to gain from excluding the 3 mentioned points from organic farming. Yet certain industries stand to gain from including them. I am curious on which side the scale will tip.