comment = I write as a California attorney; a cum laude graduate of Harvard College, Cambridge Mass, in the field of Intellectual History (focusing on the history of science)(1975); a graduate of a course of study in herbal medicine at the American College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, San Francisco, Ca (1985); a student and practitioner of the method of Biodynamic agriculture founded by Rudolf Steiner; the Natural Law Party candidate for the 15th Assembly District of California in the 1996 elections; and a concerned consumer.  I find that the proposed rule lacks intellectual integrity, and moral backbone toward the established (non-organic) food industry, as exmplified by the position it takes, or does not take, in three areas:  (1) It is shocking and inexplicable that the USDA would permit genetically engineered foods to be labeled organic. I am sure that if one took a poll of those persons who regularly purchase organic foods because they desire a natural, uncontaminated, non-toxic food supply, those persons would overwhelmingly reject genetically engineered foods. The parties that are strongly politically motivated to include genetically engineered foods under the label organic are those companies that profit from genetic manipulation, and food distributors that don't want to be bothered with having to avoid or label such foods. This rule should be oriented to consumers, not to corporate profit and convenience.  When this rule is coupled with the current prohibition on labeling foods as genetically engineered, or free of genetically engineered components, the result is that the consumer is denied the choice of avoiding such foods.  I recognize that in the minds of many, the verdict is still out on the harmfulness of genetically engineered foods. Nevertheless, it cannot be gainsaid that we are all being subjected to a mass scientific experiment, without our consent. This is wrong. It is also ironic, given that the same food and pharmaceutical interests that are heavily invested in genetic engineering also fight, often successfully, to keep herbal health products from the consumer unless and until such products have been proven "safe and effective" through procedures that are often prohibitively expensive for herbal producers and importers. At the very least, there is a scientific double standard being applied. More likely, it is not science, but rather moneyed vested interests, which has thrust genetically engineered foods on the consumer, while keeping from the consumer many beneficial herbal products.  A particularly egregious example of industry propaganda on this point was the scare over L-triptophan several years ago. This scare was used by the conventional food industry to threaten and divert consumers from the natural foods sector of the market. In fact, the harm was caused by a genetically engineered form of L-triptophan, not the naturally occurring form. This eventual discovery was not widely publicized.   Finally, even if there were no scientifically identified harms from genetic engineered foods (which there are), there are consumers that do not wish to consume such foods for spiritual or religious reasons. Again, many regular consumers of organic foods hold such beliefs. The values of tolerance, choice and respect for individual, dissenting beliefs, which are basic to American democratic values, seem to get trampled when the profit interests of the allopathic medical industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the biotech industry, and the food production giants are at stake.  I wish to make it clear that I include in my criticism the use of recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH) in dairy herds. In addition to being genetically engineered and objectionable on that ground, this hormone is an offensive means of forcing a cow into premature milk production, exhausting her system into over production of milk (with concomitant inflammation of the organism), and shorting of the life span of the cow. The transformation and exploitation of the cow as a commercial bioreactor, while it may be an industry dream, is a nightmarish mockery of organic principles.   (2) Many of the same points can be made with respect to irradiated foods. Irradiated foods should not be accepted as organic. Polls show that consumers do not want irradiated foods--and consumers have persisted in this rejection in the face of food industry scare tactics about food contamination.   The worst food contamination problems are the result of food production, storage, and distribution techniques that are at the opposite pole from the principles of organic agriculture. The most salient examples are the factory farming and butchering of chickens, resulting in endemic salmonella problems; stale grain is silos resulting in contamination by highly carcinogenic aflavotoxins; and food kept too long on shelves. Irradiation is the lazy way to attempt to correct these problems, while giving a boost to the nuclear industry--whose values are also poles apart from organic values. The correct way to solve problems of food contamination is to raise healthier animals organically, take more care in the processing, storage and distribution of foods, and do more to ensure that foods are kept fresh and consumed promptly.  Science has not yet understood all of the complex interactions of organic compounds, trace substances, and symbiotic forms of life found in natural foods and organisms. Like antibiotics, irradiation kills indiscriminately. It diminishes the food value of the substance so treated, from an organic and biodynamic point of view.  Rather than solving a regulatory problem, food irradiation creates other regulatory problems. Are there sufficient government inspectors to insure that levels of irradiation are not excessive, that those working in and around irradiation facilities are safe, and that the nuclear waste involved is handled and disposed of properly? Promoting food irradiation is tantamount to promoting nuclear power. Many consumers would rather not support nuclear power and its attendant dangers, and would appreciate the opportunity to withdraw that support by avoiding irradiated foods.   (3) Finally, there are crop fields here in the San Francisco Bay Area that have been damaged to a significant degree by the application of municipal sludge to the fields as fertilizer. Such sludge is often high in heavy metals and other contaminants. Use of sludges should not be allowed in organic farming, at least not without rigorous testing to ensure that the levels of heavy metals, known carcinogens, and other contaminants are absent from the sludge or kept at extremely low levels. Once again, organic rules should not be bent simply to allow conventional industry a cheap, convenient way to dispose of the waste from a wasteful society and the residues of non-sustainable, destructive practices.  Conclusion:  The organic industry represents the economic face of an important, grass roots movement to work toward a healthy, sustainable, ecologically balanced future. Its popularity is the result of the widespread public awareness of the destructiveness of many industrial processes born of an incomplete understanding of the laws of nature, and of the technologies developed by mere cleverness and partial knowledge, divorced from ancient wisdom. The movement is not anti-scientific; it is simply distrustful of science propagated by those whose research is funded by biotech, nuclear, and the pharmaceutical, allopathic medical, and food industry giants, whose purse power could reasonably be assumed to have some impact on objectivity. When one considers the overwhelming predominance and pervasive influence of such funding sources on the research that is done on the safety and effectiveness of foods, herbs and medicines, one has good reason to be suspicious.   For those consumers that are most motivated to choose foods, herbs, and medicines on the basis of an organic designation, it is not a matter of indifference that the food, herb or medicine in question has been manipulated by or subjected to processes or substances that are not the creations of nature, but rather are the creations of scientists manipulating nuclear, chemical and genetic laws of nature, with a very partial, unproven understanding of the consequences. Yet the proposed rule does little or nothing even to warn the organic consumer when he or she is coming in contact with science experiments and the toxic by-products of modern industry--let alone to keep these things out of the organic food supply.  Much more than most consumers, consumers of organic foods do think and care about how food is grown, processed, stored and distributed. Organic agriculture is ideally suited to local industry and to the building of local, sustainable economies. Organic agriculture is also a principle bulwark against the sinister attempts of agricultural giants to monopolize and genetically patent the world's food supply, and of pharmaceutical cartels to achieve a similar world monopoly of drug-oriented and technologically intensive forms of medical care. Just as agribusiness would like to bring about farmer dependency on hybridized, patented, engineered seed stocks that require the purchase of synthetic fertilizers and toxic pesticides, so too some pharmaceutical interests and certain elements of the allopathic medical industry would like to see consumers dependent on a drug intensive, perhaps even genetically engineered "final solution" to their medical problems.   Many organic consumers would like to choose a different future, build their own health with nourishment from vital foods and herbs locally grown, and to live and grow according to healthy practices derived from, and applied with an awareness and sensitivity towards, ancient wisdom, local customs, local cultural practices, and local laws of nature. These consumers should not be forced to bow to the centralized global authority of a Codex Alimentare in Rome, or to the global power of multinationals. Our government should be concerned with rights and principles, and with the protection of diversity and individual choice. The USDA should not become a lackey to interests that care more about profit than principle, and that seek to homogenize the global consumer base.    Organic consumers seek to wed theories of sustainability and ecological balance with the very basic practices of agriculture and daily nourishment. A core notion of "organic" ought to be: from clean land, water and air to the mouth, with as little interference, contamination and manipulation on the way as is possible. It is a travesty to allow genetically engineered foods, nuclear waste treatment, and contaminated sludge into this picture.  Given that organic foods generally cost more than similar non-organic foods, every time a consumer chooses an organic food, that consumer is making a statement that he or she is willing to pay the price to leave the conventional food supply--to dissent in the matter of nutrition from the prevailing status quo of food economics. This choice is motivated by principle and belief. It is outrageous, and a violation of the right to dissent, to force such consumers to accept foods that other market forces wish them to accept, and to subserve the power and profit interests of the industries behind those market forces.   