comment = I think the USDA is making a serious mistake in even considering the use of bioengineering, irradiation, sewage sludge and antibiotics in the organics industry. The definition of organic varies, but the purpose is clear, at least to me: to produce food that is made naturally, without "man's" so-called improvements. All of the above, in my opinion violate that core meaning. Fortunately for me, I buy ALL of my food from a "health" food store, that is completely and totally upfront about their foods, and I trust they will never carry your definition of organic foods. But I am tremendously concerned that by limiting states from applying more stringent standards in some cases, you will severely undermine and harm the industry as a whole. It also is not fair to people who don't have access to this type of a vendor, but want to improve what they eat.   The other issue, re;labelling. I am a vegetarian for ethical reasons. In NO WAY do I want to be eating a tomato that has a cow or pig gene in it. Clearly, I already consume animal products that I am not aware of, or cannot control (non-food items). But to take away the purity and sanctity of my food is WRONG. Liken it to religion if you like, but I have the RIGHT to eat pure food, or at least KNOW what I am eating.  As an occupational health and safety professional, I'm not too concerned about the irradiated foods might do to ME (although it remains to be seen whether or not it changes significantly the nutrient levels), but I am concerned that an increase in the use of ionizing radiation will needlessly expose many thousands of workers to more risks. I don't care so much about meat, cause I won't touch it. But to call an irradiated vegetable ORGANIC is a crime; prove to me that ecoli and the like are as big a threat to vegetables as dead carcasses, and maybe I'll consider it. But DONT call it organic...call it what it is.  Well, I've rambled a bit, but this is making me kind or mad. It seems pretty clear that you are thinking of caving to agribusiness. DONT DO IT. It's wrong, and I, and many others will fight it.