comment = It's clear from these proposed rules that USDA is acting as lackies for corporate agribusiness and has no interest in permitting the existence of genuine organic farming. The ability of corporate agribusiness to falsely label their industrial farm products as "organic" based on these regs will eliminate the ability of genuine organic food to be distinguished from industrial farm products at the point of sale to the consumer. Here are the six main problems with the regulations:  1) The proposed regs forbid states and localities from enforcing legitimate food labeling laws passed at the state and local level. This federal pre-emption destroys the ability of grass-roots groups to require truthful labeling instead of the federally mandated labeling of industrial farm products as "organic food". We should be encouraging a maximum amount of local regulation of food products, to keep suppliers honest and connected with their customers, instead of having the feds stomp on state and local food regs.  2) The proposed regs permit the "organic" label to be applied to produce grown using toxic municipal sludge or toxic industrial sludge as "fertilizer". This is an absurdity that could only make sense to an agribusiness executive or his lapdog federal government regulator.  3) The proposed regs permit meat animals raised with the practice of animal cannibalism, which is already known to spread mammilian Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy, to be labeled "organic". This is a known hazard to both the animals and the human consumer, as the "Mad Cow" disaster in Britain has shown. The USDA has totally knuckled under to industry pressure on the TSE issue, putting Americans at risk. The proposed regs will only add to this problem.  4) The proposed regs permit labeling of genetically engineered foods as "organic". This is an obvious absurdity, and again, one that could only make sense to an agribusiness exec or his lapdog regulator. There is nothing "natural" about engineered foods. Tampering with the genome of an organism by methods other than breeding yields a new organism which should be clearly labeled as "genetically engineered", not "organic". What ever happened to truth?  5) The proposed regs permit labeling as "organic" food that has been sterilized by irradiation. But the only reason that the food industry is rushing to irradiate food is that they have become lax by allowing higher levels of filth into the food stream. Agriculture workers in the fields, without access to sanitary facilities, contaminate food with fecal matter. Agriculture workers in meat and poultry processing plants, who are not allowed bathroom breaks by their employers, cause similar contamination. If modern (i.e. 20th century) standards of hygene (not to mention human decency) are offered to ag workers by their corporate employers, there is no need for irradiation. In no sense can irradiated food be considered "organic".  6) The proposed regs do not outlaw inhumane animal confinement practices for animal products labeled "organic". There is no way that an animal grown in a tiny cage indoors, jammed into a factory farm, can be considered "organic". Real organic farmers do not use these inhumane practices. The only reason to leave a loophole to label inhumane practices "organic" is to allow factory farms to falsely label their meat "organic" to fool the customer.   Fooling the customer is the clear intent of the proposed redefinition of "organic" by the federal government. Like in George Orwell's Newspeak, they propose to make a word mean its opposite, so as to deliberately create confusion in the mind of the consumer. We must reject this meretricious abuse of language and insist on truthful labeling. Food grown with toxic sludge for fertilizer should be labeled as "toxic", not organic, just for one example.   But the worst aspect of this proposal is that it eliminates the ability of states and localaties from enforcing genuine, truthful food labeling laws. This is a federal power grab, pure and simple, and truth will be the first casualty.  My interpretation of this proposal is that the federal government is trying to shove toxic sludge, animal cannibalism, genetic engineering, irradiated food, and inhumanely grown livestock down our throats. So far, the only way for the consumer to avoid these ills has been to buy organic foods. Now the feds are trying to relabel industrial food as "organic" so we can't distinguish the two based on the label before we buy. This is completely irresponsible and unacceptable.  Reading the proposed regulation, I am amazed that the people who wrote it have the gall to collect and cash their federal paychecks, when they're clearly working for corporate agribusiness, and working against the common public interest of the American citizen.