comment =  >http://www.ams.usda.gov/nop as well as by letter and fax.    U.S. rules for organic food ban pesticides   Organic farming groups said they welcomed ways to help eliminate fraud in organic labeling, but insisted the USDA must maintain high standards for purity demanded by consumers. Federal regulators issued long-awaited rules for U.S. organic food production Monday but sidestepped the thorny issues of biotechnology, irradiation and the use of human waste as fertilizer.  The proposed rules would ban the use of chemicals and pesticides on crops, prohibit any drugs for livestock except vaccinations and require any processed product to be made up of at least 95 percent organic ingredients in order to be labeled >http://www.ams.usda.gov/nop as well as by letter and fax.    U.S. rules for organic food ban pesticides   Organic farming groups said they welcomed ways to help eliminate fraud in organic labeling, but insisted the USDA must maintain high standards for purity demanded by consumers. Federal regulators issued long-awaited rules for U.S. organic food production Monday but sidestepped the thorny issues of biotechnology, irradiation and the use of human waste as fertilizer.  The proposed rules would ban the use of chemicals and pesticides on crops, prohibit any drugs for livestock except vaccinations and require any processed product to be made up of at least 95 percent organic ingredients in order to be labeled ''organic.''  Violation of the rules by organic farmers, processors or retailers could result in a civil fine of up to $10,000. National standards are a way of making sure consumers get what they pay for.'  The U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) chose not to weigh in on some of the most contentious issues such as the use of genetically-modified crops, irradiation to preserve foods and sewage sludge as fertilizer.  Those practices are adamantly opposed by current U.S. organic farmers but are used by large agribusinesses, which are beginning to take an interest in the booming organic food niche expected to ring up $4 billion in sales this year.  ``I'm not confident that dioxin really is taken out of all urban sewage sludge used as fertilizer,'' said Bob Anderson, an organic farmer who grows wheat, corn and soybeans that are made into baked goods and products. ``When it comes to production methods, we're actually pretty conservative. We want to wait until these things have been scientifically proven safe.''  This year, hamburger recalls for E. coli contamination and various food-borne illnesses were linked to fresh fruit and vegetables. The USDA and the Food and Drug Administration should work together to toughen safety standards for domestic and imported produce as part of a Clinton administration initiative on food safety.  The proposed rules shouldend the patchwork of more than three dozen state and private sector certification standards for organic foods. The USDA rules should also make it easier for U.S. organic food companies to increase exports to the major buyers such as the European Union and Japan. 