received date = 01/07/1998
name = Crawford, Michael
company = Organic Produce Consumer
state = CA
zip = 94123
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000820.txt
comment = As an organic produce consumer, I was motivated to send this comment after
listening to Michael Krasny's show on NPR (KQED-San Francisco) about the proposed rules this morning. 

In brief: DO NOT WATER DOWN THE CURRENT CALIFORNIA ORGANIC PRODUCTION REGULATIONS TO APPEASE GIANT CORPORATIONS! This will leave us with no real alternative to what's available now in the vast majority of supermarkets.

In particular: (and without reading in detail the proposed regulations) I'd
like to comment on:

- USE of sludge: PLEASE do not allow this! I don't see how they can rid this sludge of products such as household cleaners and detergents which are sent down the same drains. The VERY reason we buy organic products is to keep these man-made chemicals out of our food supply. Allowing sludge for organic food production adds the very chemicals we buy organic to avoid!

- biotechnology: I'm not against allowing biotech modified foods (such as the flavr-savr (sp?) tomato) to be labeled organic, as long as they are ALSO CLEARLY labeled as a genetically engineered product. Many people in the public are CLEARLY concerned about this - it is unethical to (effectively) FORCE people to consume products which they would not buy if they knew what they were getting. Genetically engineered products should succeed or fail in the marketplace on their merits, not due to consumer ignorance.

- irradiation: As above, I'm not against the use of irradiation of organically certified foods, as long as this practice is CLEARLY labeled. I personally think that the benefits outweigh the risks, but I am worried that this procedure has not been around long enough for most people to become comfortable with it. Once this practice has been around a while, I'm sure more and more people will become comfortable with it. In the meantime, make sure organic food producers learn how to produce clean food with current techniques before allowing this crutch.

- labeling: One of the greatest things that the USDA has done recently is the new food labels. I use these EXTENSIVELY to compare various brands of food. I think that the idea of providing consumers with as much information as possible and letting THEM decide represents the best aspects of a free market system. Regulation should insure that these labels are accurate so decisions are based on correct information. To continue the push for more information is the right thing to do, so call it organic, but let us know if it's been irradiated, genetically-engineered, or injected with hormones or antibiotics, PLEASE. The reason AGRIBUSINESS does not want these labeling practices instituted is that they DON'T WANT consumers to know and have a choice - it may reduce their profits! But who are you supposed to protect? In summary: if you can't keep it out, tell us what's in it, and let US decide what to buy. I think you'll find that consumers will migrate AWAY from the solution favored by agribusiness and towards the solutions currently used by smaller organic farmers.

- Hormones, antibiotics and feed in meat/milk: I am against the use of bovine growth hormone and regular use of antibiotics in beef. I'm worried about the effects of antibiotics in particular - it's already been shown that some strains of stalph bacteria have become immune to even the strongest antibiotics available today. The casual use of antibiotics by nearly all segments of society is evolving super-bacteria which I feel represent the greatest threat of future human death on a massive scale since the elimination of the threat of nuclear war. We are breeding an enemy we can't fight! Please DO NOT allow the use of antibiotics in organic production as a preventative measure - they should only be allowed in case of actual sickness in an animal. As far as hormones, these are not natural - they cause ABNORMAL growth of an animal, and I've read they they show up in the milk and meat of animals treated with them. The reason we buy organic is to avoid man-made chemicals - at a minimum, you MUST label organic products which use them. Finally, feed. I'm against the reduction of the requirement that organically certified beef (etc.) must eat 100% organic feed. Reducing this to 80% is obviously a capitulation to agribusiness interests. If they can't obtain the required organic feed at a price they find acceptable, allowing them to use something else is a loophole they will ALWAYS exploit. If they don't use 100% organic feed, it's not organic, and they shouldn't be allowed to call it so.

Thanks for the opportunity to comment on these proposed requlations. I hope you weigh the comments of an ordinary citizen as much as those of corporations which I'm sure are spending millions to force their opinion on the public. Please don't let us down. There's so much skepticism of government these days - don't contribute to it by watering down TRUE organic foods.

Thanks,

Mike Crawford
3444 Divisadero St.
San Francisco, CA 94123
415-929-7282
