received date = 12/29/1997
name = Khare, Phyllis
company = individual
state = IA
zip = 52556
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000618.txt
comment = TMD-94-00-2
Eileen S. Stommes, Deputy Administrator
USDA-AMS-TM-NOP, AG Stop 0275, Room 4007-So.
PO Box 96456
Washington, DC 20090-6456

Dear Ms. Stommes,

I am writing in response to the proposed National Organic Standards to let you know that I DO NOT want genetically engineered organisms, processing agents or agricultural inputs to be allowed in organic - even on a case by case basis! I also ask that you prohibit the use of irradiation and sewage sludge, and that the standard for the treatment of livestock in organic and the fee structure for certification be consistent with the NOSB's recommendations. The NOSB represents a broad consensus of organic farmers, manufacturers and consumers regarding the principles of organic agriculture and foods production. To formulate regulations that do not reflect their recommendations on genetic engineering, irradiation, sewage sludge, the needs of the small farmer and the treatment of animals will GRAVELY weaken consumer confidence in the organic label, and threaten the viability of this industry. Thank you for including my input in your final decision.

As a mother of two, I have to say that I can't believe that the USDA wouldn't listen to these dedicated people. I buy ONLY organic foods for my family and to have that label mean nothing (having it include GE foods)is so irresponsible to the consumers of this country. Having it labeled as such is at least the polite, sensible thing to do. The consumers HAS the right to know. PERIOD! Unless you want a lot of people dropping out of the food buying business, by raising their own, I kindly suggest you rethink this new standard your office is creating. I can't tell you how strange it sounds to me that you completely disregarded these issues (GE, irradiation, sewage sludge...). 

I hope the thousands of people who feel as I do find this place to input their feelings. I had to hunt for it. The public should be better notified of this process.

Sincerely,

Phyllis Khare
513 South Second
Fairfield, IA 52556
515-472-2715
