received date = 12/17/1997
name = Yundt, Stephen
company = Great Chefs of Mendocino
state = CA
zip = 95449
country = United States
category = Small Business
topic = Labeling
section = 205.100
file = w0000136.txt
comment = Everyone I know is concerned about what foods they put in their body and the bodies of their family members. They are very worried that huge corporations which have nearly taken over our government using big money, bribes, pacs and other underhanded methods of bypassing the American citizens power of the vote, will be successful in their bid to undermine our choice of food supply.

 We know that the produce in the average supermarket is highly sprayed with pesticides, washed with fungicides and grown in soil polluted and nearly toxic from too much salts from chemical fertilizers. All we have to do is compare our bug-eaten produce from our own organic gardens to the "perfect" looking stuff being sold. 

Congressmen and corporations think that Americans are blinder than they really are. We know what's going on, yet we feel powerless to stop it.We know all about the irradiation scam, the big money that wants our food irradiated against our will, so they can make big profits. They don't want us to have a choice of buying non-irradiated food. They want to eliminate our choice of buying truly safe, organically grown produce, and natural dairy products with no geneticly altered stuff or growth hormones added. Right now, our buying choices are like votes...what we buy is what we vote for. By looking at the enormous rise in purchases of organic foods in the last 20 years, you can see that Americans are voting for natural foods over corporate messed-with foods.

Labeling must be kept truthful.We need to know what is in our food.
It is our right as American citizens to know if our food is irradiated, poisoned with genetic altering or full of pesticides so we have a choice.

Wouldn't it be simpler and more truthful to regulate all the other products, and leave the organic ones alone...like when you go to the supermarket to buy a strawberry, for instance, if it is an organic one, it would be unlabeled, if it was geneticly altered or irradiated or sprayed, it would be labeled with all that stuff. People would buy the natural ones, and the others would be voted out by buying power. Americans would live longer and be much healthier.Our choice would be restored.The nuclear industry would collapse, and the pesticide makers would have to sell it to unsuspecting third world countries, like cigarette manufacturers. The world would be a better place.

