received date = 12/28/1997
name = Mitchell, Sharon & Jay
company = 
state = IA
zip = 52556
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = Labeling
file = w0000600.txt
comment = Based on the ongoing research we've seen, there are still many unanswered questions about the short- and long-term effects of genetic engineering. We would urge the following:

1. Please do not permit any form of genetic engineering in the organic production process. This includes GE seeds; GE or GE-derived fertilizers and other ag inputs; and foods produced from GE sources or using GE processing agents or their derivatives.

2. Please do not permit irradiation under the organic label. Irradiation is similar to GE in that it modifies chemical structures and creates unknown and unpredictable proteins.

3. Please not not permit the use of municipal sewage sludge as "organic" fertilizer. Organic accreditation bodies have pointed out that such sewage contains unhealthy human waste and heavy-metal contaminants like cadmium and lead.

4. There should be no GE, irradiation or sewage used in the production of the feed for organic livestock.

5. Please let the definition of "organic" be determined by those experts in the field who have been active in growing, selling, promoting and eating organic food for years and years. This is not something that can or should be determined through some sort of political negotiation or lobbying efforts. Since the beginning of organic farming, "organic" has meant "organic from start to finish." For the well-being and peace of mind of those of us who have gone out of our way to choose organic products for the foregoing reasons, please allow this meaning to continue.

In sum, we do not want to consume genetically-engineered products, or products where GE has played any part, in any form; and we want the labelling of the food and other products we buy to reflect whether any genetic engineering took place at any point in the production of those products.

Thank you for your attention.
