received date = 12/28/1997
name = nicola, nikki
company = 
state = CA
zip = 95616
country = United States
category = Handler/Processor/Manufacturer
topic = General
file = w0000604.txt
comment = What information I wish to comment on I learned from the San Jose Murcury News front page article, Dec. 16, 1997:'Federal Rules Trouble Organic Farmers...', by Tracy Seipel. I could make neither heads nor tales out of your web site.

Regarding Sewage Sludge use: I think it's a great idea. However, do to the liturgical nature of our society it probably shouldn't be used in any crop that would come in direct contact with it. Use it in vineyards or orchard crops where fruit is never salvaged from the ground; and cut flowers and livestock feed, for examples. If this kind of regulation is too complicated, just flat out permit it across the board. 

Regarding Irradiation: It's too high tech. and costly to impliment. How about letting the people who don't cook their meat well enough or handle it properly take the responsibility for it. Irradiate vegetables? Absolutely not! The process of getting food from the field to the table should not be so complicated! Isn't that part of the philosiphy of growing organic food?*
 
Regarding Biotechnology: Genetically altered plant material can be a good thing when plants are bread to resist disease, for example, and so there is less need to use chemicals. *

Regarding allowing 80% Organic feed in 'Organic' Beef/Dairy products instead of the currant 100%: Absolutely not. I buy organic products because I want to support organic growers, not chemical farmers. I would not be assured of this were it allowed.

Regarding permitting use of Natural Toxic Substances (e.g. Nicotine, Strychnine): I'm not so sure I like the idea. See * (follows).

* I want to support an organic industry that produces healthy crops by scaling down their production size, rotating crops, establishing hedgerows, growing cover crops, using various animals and insects as natural predators and creating natural habitat for aformentioned predators. When I purchase organic food this is the organic farm I hope I am supporting. By allowing the use of 'Natural Toxic Substances' and biotechnologically altered plants in the system it seems you are paving the way for large scale factory farmers to remain that way and still call their food organic. This would cause unfair competition to farmers who are sincerely committed to maintaing a healthy farm system. If anything small scale healthy farms should be incuraged through subsidies and not charged even more money now by your new rules to be called organic. Whatever your new regulations do, they should make it easier for small scale farmers to be competitive, and keep any one who is not committed to creating a system in balance out of the organic scene.

Healthy Farms = Healthy Ecosystems = Healthy People 

It's time for a positive change!
Thanks for listening, Nikki Nicola
