received date = 01/05/1998
name = Tull, Katherine
company = Wildcat Ridge Ostrich and Organic Farm KY Cert Farm 14111
state = KY
zip = 41121
country = United States
category = Accrediting Agency, Consumer, Crop Producer, Livestock Producer, Small Business, Wild Crop Harvester, Other
topic = Fees
section = 205.421
file = w0000748.txt
comment = 
Hi, I am a small farmer and have just recently gotten a copy of the proposed regulations. If I understand the section on the fees, it appears that the farmer will be charged a certification fee of $878. I find that to be a little bit high. I feel very strongly about organic certification and would love to stay being a certified grower but if the cost is going to $878 dollars a year then i would not be able to afford to keep my certification. I know many other farmers that would not be able to afford that either.
What i would like to know is how other certifying agencies could afford to run their programs ...some of which are private companies (for Profit),and charge only $350 a year for certification. Yet the federal goverment has to charge over twice as much from each of the farmers and much more then that from the certifing agencies in order to have a program that is supposed to work. I'm sorry this does not make any sense in my mind. I do want national standards and have pushed for it for years in my state, writing letters and helping out with the University and Dept of Ag when I could, but as a small farmer I just don't see where I will be able to come up with $878 each year to sell my crops as organic. Case in point...this year we had a very bad year (first cold, wet, flooding spring followed by a hot dry summer with major bug and deer damage to my crops) , when it is all said and done I probably didn't make $878 off of my crops this year. So as you can see i could not afford to stay as a certified farmer if that kept up.
Thank you for hearing me out.
Sincerely 
Katherine Tull
Wildcat Ridge Ostrich and Organic Farm #141
