received date = 12/30/1997
name = Vallette, Jessica
company = self
state = DC
zip = 20001
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000644.txt
comment = I would like to applude you for finally working toward a national rule for organic food. This policy is critical for giving consumers of organic food a consistent set of scientific criteria that manufacturers must comply with when they chose to advertise their food as organic. In other words, we will have a reasonable assurance that organic food will be grown and produced under more healthful conditions than the current system provides.

However, there are a few categories that should be addressed in this standard, which are currently either ignored or not prohibited under this proposed rule.

First, genetically engineered foods and chemicals should NOT be considered organic. Organic, to me, implies that the food has not been genetically manipulated by humans. 

Second, irradiated foods should not be considered organic. Our exposure to radiation has been continuously increased since the advent of the nuclear bomb. The government and industry should get out of the radiation business and back into the business of protecting consumers--not secretly seek to increase its radioactive waste disposal options, and reduce its costs, by saddling citizens with more sources of radiation including irradiated food.

Third, as a former intern of the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District, I know what goes into Milorganite and other sewage-based fertilizers. These fertilizers are plagued with a high heavy metals content and should NOT be used on crops that will be labelled as organic. 

Fourth, the Secretary should ban all synthetic or genetically engineered chemicals from use on organic food crops.

Finally, organic food has traditionally meant food that is pure--grown without chemical inputs, not genetically altered, and not irradiated. I have bought organic food for the last 10 years of my life trusting that it is pure and supports the smaller farms (as opposed to ADM farms). 

Thank you for your attention. Please put me on your mailing list for this rulemaking process. I look forward to hearing your response.

Sincerely, 
Jessica Vallette
1806 Vermont Ave. NW
Washington DC 20001-5006
