received date = 01/11/1998
name = Alexander, Daniel
company = DMR Trecom
state = NJ
zip = 07030
country = United States
category = Consumer
topic = General
file = w0000965.txt
comment = 
This is a quick reply to a comment that I read about Genetically Engineered Organisms (GEO’s) that was posted earlier.

GEO’s can be beneficial "if used wisely"? GEOs "appropriately used" can be beneficial? It is not necessary for us to establish a standard that relies on the good works of Biotechnologist. But even if we did, i don't see that any Biotechnologist can create any better specimens then have already been engineered in nature. The organic consumer is not interested in "good" science, so much as they are interested in common sense; "good" science should not be applied without it.

It has always bothered me when someone that claims an interest in "good" science pedals their products by finding examples in nature that they seem to believe make their activities acceptable. I remember a report that argued the benefits of pesticides by saying that they occur naturally--which they do. However, these self acclaimed "good" scientists argued that since broccoli develops cancer in rats, they can claim that pesticides are beneficial. But this is gibberish. First, there is no correlation between the negative effects of pesticides and the negative effects of broccoli on rats. Second, if you feed any animal a diet of one food that, historically, their bodies have never naturally processed (eaten) there is likely going to be negative side effects. The point is that these men are peddling "good" science.

In the case of the organic standard we should ovoid those so called "good" scientific facts unless it can be shown that the benefits of such science to the CONSUMER outweigh ANY POSIBLE negative effects. The mere fact that we would need to rely on the good works of the Biotechnologist rule such practices out of the organic standard (it is not required for us to take the risk). Even if we assumed that all Biotechnologist were wise men, the introduction of such materials into nature have effects that are well beyond their training (social, environmental, physical, etc.). Therefor even the most well minded Biotechnologist will not be capable of successfully managing the facts needed to introduce beneficial specimens. There are far too many variables in nature that we have not yet defined. The added pressures of the industries management and profit motivation will only further complicate the function of the Biotechnologist. I don’t see it as possible to apply this supposed "good" science in any way that will truly protect the consumer.

Also, please do not confuse fact and theory. If you are basing your argument on anything that starts with the word theory then all you are saying is that your foundation is not complete; and therefore, it has an inert possibility of error (i.e. The Theory of Evolution). Evolution is more akin to history and not "good" science. Just as historians discuss the possibilities of a second gunman at the shooting of J.F.K. (and try to use science to back up their claims), Evolution makes historical arguments about the origin of species (and try to use science to back it up)--both are not strong arguments, both leave a lot to the imagination. Relying on either to argue a larger proposition does not guaranty that the proposition becomes stronger, because the foundation can be weak. Do not underestimate the damage that can be caused by even the smallest assumptions.

I assert that the organic standard is more than just "good" science. It also incorporates the ethical issues associated with food production, distribution, and consumption. We hold dearly to the primitive principles of farming that have protected us from those "good" scientists that have lead astray consumers of mainstream food stuff. We have accepted, and will continue to accept, only the "good" science whose benefit to the CONSUMER outweigh any POSSIBLE negative side effects.

I think that the main point is that we do not need biotechnology in the production of food stuff. It doesn't serve any advantage that nature has not already afforded us; and therefor, we do not need to take any risks by accepting it as a part of the organic standard. This is a common scenes approach to using the "good" science that biotechnology has afforded us :).

All of the above comments can also be related to the use of waste sludge, irradiation, inhuman animal treatment (animal cannibalism, factory farming, etc), all of which are profit related application of supposed "good" science.

Again, please do not abuse those of us that wish to ascribe to a more perfect standard.

Regards,

Daniel J. Alexander (organic food consumer)
Software Engineer
DMR Group



