received date = 01/06/1998
name = Bowen, Rhonda
company = HRSD
state = VA
zip = 23455
country = United States
category = Handler/Processor/Manufacturer, State Government Official
topic = National List
section = 205.20, 205.21, 205.28
file = w0000772.txt
comment = COMMENTS ON USDA PROPOSED NATIONAL ORGANIC RULE


January 6, 1998

The USDA should allow the use of biosolids and biosolid products and biosolid composts for the production of organic food crops. The restrictions that are contained in EPA 40 CFR Part 503 ensure that biosolids can be safely used in conventional agriculture and organic food production. Congress mandated that EPA develop these regulations to ensure the protection and safety of public health and the environment. These regulations and the standards developed should not be used against biosolids and any proposed usage. In fact, these same standards should be used as guidance in the adoption of regulations for animal manure usage to ensure their safety in agricultural use. 

In 1996, the National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences issued a report entitled "Use of Reclaimed Water and Sludge in Food Crop Production". This report confirms the basis of Federal policy stating that "properly treated and managed wastewater effluents and biosolids can be safely and effectively used in food crop production without presenting any risk to food crops, consumers and the environment". This report along with over 30 years of research conducted on biosolid usage are more than adequate documentation to support biosolid applications to organic food crops. The USDA, FDA and EPA need to take a finite position on the use of biosolids and stop sending conflicting messages to the general public. Adoption of any regulation that precludes the use of biosolids is counter productive of all efforts to promote Federal beneficial use and recycling policies. It only suggests unscientific implications that biosolids are toxic, unsafe and without environmental benefit. Biosolids are valuable, safe and one of the most highly studied natural resources, there is no scientific basis for precluding the use of biosolids on food crops grown organically or otherwise. The problem is a public acceptance issue alone and the publics misunderstanding and misinformation about biosolids prompted by governmental agencies inability to send a consistent message.

The proposed Organic Food Production rule, as written, has a much greater potential to weaken public health safety and protection by creating a significant potential for introducing pathogenic contamination from animal manures on foods produced for direct human consumption. In addition, there is the potential for indirect pathogenic contamination of animal feeds. The proposed rule includes little or no quality control requirements or controlled management practices, and no technical or performance standards for animal manures, raw or composted. Throughout the preamble the USDA mentions the potential health hazards posed by the use of animal manures, however there is no attempt to regulate its usage. The reason consumers want organically grown food is the assurance that these foods are safe. 

In 1993 the USDA prepared a draft report entitled "Agricultural Utilization of Municipal, Animal and Industrial Wastes". This outstanding report unfortunately has never been published. The report states that "over 2.2 billion wet tons of animal manures are generated annually" and that the "biochemical demand of such wastes are 10-100 times greater than treated municipal sewage". If these statements alone are accurate then animal manures are 500-5000 times a bigger threat to public health and the environment than biosolids given the extremely conservative controls established in 40 CFR Part 503. Poorly managed manure is universally recognized as the primary cause of non-point source water pollution of both ground waters and surface waters. As a nation we have spent billions of dollars cleaning up point source pollution, but we continue to ignore non-point source water pollution. Why are these problems being ignored and why do manures continue to remain unregulated!!! 

Additionally, a recent USDA research proposal dated October 3, 1997 recognized the existence of pathogens in manures and the potential contamination of fruits and vegetables and food producing animals and the need to develop quality control requirements and systems for improved sanitation of animal production facilities. In the past couple of years there have been numerous serious illnesses and deaths reported across the nation from Salmonella, E-Coli and Cryptosporidium outbreaks, all of which resulted from the use of untreated animal manures or poor sanitation practices associated with their usage. It would seem that even though there is extensive scientific data to document the health risks associated with animal manures the apparent public acceptance of this practice appears to negate the need for regulation?

The threats to water quality and public health risks posed by the inclusion of manure usage for organic food production without regulatory control far outweigh the unfounded risk associated with biosolid usage. If raw animal manure, which contains numerous pathogens and unknown levels of metals, are approved for use on organic food crop production, it only make sense to include regulated biosolids, where pathogenic organisms are removed and metals (which are really trace elements essential for plant growth) are reduced to safe levels. 

The classification of biosolids as a synthetic rather than a non-synthetic substance is also inappropriate. The word synthetic typically applies to chemical compounds. By definition synthetic refers to something manmade or not of natural origin. Biosolids are a nutrient-rich organic material resulting form the treatment of wastewater. The treatment of wastewater is not a chemical process it is a natural process that occurs in a controlled environment. 

